
title: Украинских госслужащих могут обязать сдавать экзамен по языку
description:  Госслужащих и претендентов на гражданство Украины могут обязать сдавать экзамен по украинскому языку, заявил уполномоченный по защите государственного языка Украины Тарас Креминь.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/ukraina-1591905960.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:55:12 +0300


title: Медведчук назвал заявления Минздрава Украины о российской вакцине трепом
description:  Заявление главного санитарного врача, замминистра здравоохранения Украины Виктора Ляшко об отказе регистрировать российскую вакцину "Спутник V" не имеет ничего общего с медициной, считает глава политсовета парламентской фракции "Оппозиционная платформа – За жизнь" Виктор Медведчук.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/lyashko-1591903776.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:29:08 +0300


title: The world in 2021 – how global politics will change this year
description: Donald Trump’s departure will alter the face of geopolitics. The climate crisis and Covid response will affect all nations – while others face very particular challenges. Observer correspondents examine the 12 months aheadA potent mix of hope and fear accompanies the start of 2021 in most of the world. Scientists have created several vaccines for a disease that didn’t even have a name this time last year. But many countries, including the UK and the US, are still stumbling through the deadliest period of the pandemic.The shadow of Covid will not begin to lift, even in richer countries, for months. Britain was the first to approve a vaccine and has secured extensive supplies, yet Boris Johnson’s suggestion that life might be returning to normal by Easter is widely seen as optimistic. Other countries, particularly in the south, face a long wait to get vaccines, and help paying for them. The rebuilding of economies shattered by Covid everywhere will be slow; even countries that managed to contain it have taken a hit, from Vietnam to New Zealand. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/the-world-in-2021-how-global-politics-will-change-this-year
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:00:05 GMT


title: В Центре разминирования сообщили, сколько лет займет очистка Карабаха
description:  Директор Центра гуманитарного разминирования Карабаха Самвел Месропян заявил, что степень минной загрязненности территории непризнанной Нагорно-Карабахской республики остается высокой.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/karabakh-1591903980.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:31:55 +0300


title: Iran steps up nuclear plans as tensions rise on anniversary of Suleimani’s killing
description: As Tehran moves on uranium enrichment, Washington braces for retaliation a year after the Quds Force commander’s assassinationIran has announced plans to enrich uranium up to 20% purity, just a step away from weapons-grade levels, as tensions with the US ratchet up during the final days of Donald Trump’s presidency.The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) confirmed it had been notified of Iran’s decision to increase enrichment at the Fordow facility, buried in a mountainside to protect it from military strikes, although Tehran did not say when the process would begin. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/iran-nuclear-plans-tensions-anniversary-qassem-suleimani-killing
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:00:02 GMT


title: Is the leftwing vision of Brexit Britain just fantasy? | Letters
description: Readers respond to an article by Larry Elliott calling for those on the left to see the UK’s departure from the EU as an opportunity to rebalance the economyLarry Elliott is consistent in his criticism of the EU (The left must stop mourning Brexit – and start seeing its huge potential, 31 December). He points out the neoliberalism inherent in the core EU policies of free movement of goods, services, capital and people. He then extols the advantages for the UK of being freed from EU shackles to pursue its own destiny in the world.But aren’t we committed to chasing the same neoliberalism on a broader canvas? He says nothing of the EU’s social and political projects – health and safety, employment protection, social welfare, retirement rights and other programmes. He ignores the ambitions of a gradual rapprochement between nations that engaged in monstrous wars in the recent past. Brexit UK is moving backwards, self-condemned to continued national decline, as other countries find ways of developing at least some elements of a progressive agenda in a harsh and divided world. Peter Taylor-Gooby Professor of social policy, University of Kent Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/jan/03/is-the-leftwing-vision-of-brexit-britain-just-fantasy
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:45:41 GMT


title: Why is Britain delaying second doses of Covid vaccines?
description: Health officials say delays in giving a second jab should not affect protection. Others say we shouldn’t be taking the risk. What are the facts?When will vaccines bring results?Coronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageWhy have health officials decided to delay giving second doses of Covid-19 vaccines?According to the Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunisation (JCVI), modelling of “the high level of protection afforded by the first dose suggests that initially “vaccinating a greater number of people with a single dose will prevent more deaths and hospitalisations than vaccinating a smaller number with two doses”. Delays in giving a second vaccine dose for up to 12 weeks should not affect protection, it is argued. Indeed, it may increase it.So what protection is offered by first doses of the vaccines?Short-term efficacy from the first dose of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine is around 90%, says the JCVI, while 70% is given for AstraZeneca’s. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/why-britain-delaying-second-doses-covid-19-vaccines
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:15:01 GMT


title: We Begin Again: a musical for 2020 – video
description: Written by the Olivier award winner James Graham&amp;nbsp;and produced by the Guardian&amp;nbsp;in partnership with the&amp;nbsp;National Theatre, this short musical film is a unifying song for the country to take stock of the extraordinary year gone by and reset for the year ahead. A multi-generational cast reflects on their lives and the impact 2020 has had on them, while a supporting company of 100 community members from the&amp;nbsp;National Theatre’s Public Acts&amp;nbsp;programme in Doncaster and London sings a hopeful chorus encouraging everyone to 'begin again'. Filmed on location and remotely, this online musical is a clear product of these unique timesJames Graham on his uplifting 2020 musical: 'We want to look forward Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/stage/video/2020/dec/17/we-begin-again-a-musical-for-2020-video
data: Thu, 17 Dec 2020 12:00:37 GMT


title: I lived like an astronaut for months in isolation
description: Kate Greene had a headstart in coping with lockdown cabin fever after living inside a geodesic dome at 8,000ft, as part of a space experimentOnce upon a time I lived on Mars. Or the closest thing to it. At the time I was a science journalist and not necessarily an obvious choice for the mission. And yet I found myself on it. This was 2012 and Kim Binsted, professor of information and computer sciences at the University of Hawaii, along with Jean Hunter, professor of biological and environmental engineering at Cornell, had put out a call for “almost” astronauts to participate in a four-month “Mars” mission.Binsted and Hunter wanted a crew who could technically qualify for space flight, according to Nasa, in terms of education and experience. They were also looking for astronaut-like personalities who, according to Binsted, feature “thick skin, a long fuse and an optimistic outlook”. Nearly 700 people applied worldwide. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/science/2021/jan/03/i-lived-like-an-astronaut-for-months-in-isolation
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:00:07 GMT


title: У берегов Аляски произошло землетрясение магнитудой 6,1
description:  Землетрясение магнитудой 6,1 произошло около берегов Аляски, сообщила Геологическая служба США (USGS).
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/zemletryasenie-1591903245.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:22:52 +0300


title: Ralf Little: 'I've been having a midlife crisis since I was 20'
description: The actor on his first leading role, giving up a career in medicine for The Royle Family, and his new year resolutionsGreater Manchester born and bred, Ralf Little, 40, was studying to be a doctor at Manchester University when he was offered the role of Antony in The Royle Family and abandoned his medical studies. His subsequent TV credits include Two Pints of Lager and a Packet of Crisps, The A Word, Inside No 9 and Doctor Who, along with film and stage roles. He recently took over the starring role in BBC One’s hit detective drama Death in Paradise, which returns this week for its 10th series.The BBC have been rerunning The Royle Family. Do you ever tune in to old episodes?I did when I started seeing my girlfriend [he’s engaged to US playwright Lindsey Ferrentino], to show her my history. She loved it, but had to watch with subtitles. I suppose an American’s main experience of scouse accents is the Beatles, which is much softer and more relaxed. [Slips into frighteningly accurate Jim Royle impression] “A very different bloody thing to Ricky Tommo, you shithouse!” Her family couldn’t understand a word of it either. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2021/jan/03/ralf-little-ive-been-having-a-midlife-crisis-since-i-was-20
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:30:04 GMT


title: Slash and Burn by Claudia Hernández review – challenging and vivid
description: Stream of consciousness and indirect speech bring life and layers to a sharp evocation of women caught up in civil warSalvadorian writer Claudia Hernández’s immersive novel, superbly translated by Julia Sanches, explores war and its aftermath from a female perspective. Hernández never states the setting is El Salvador, places are referred to as “the farm named after a horse” or “that place named after insects”, and her characters are unnamed. During the conflict, “not knowing a person’s real name or where they were from was a safety measure”. Instead, they are referred to as “mothers”, “daughters” and “sisters”. This lends a universality to the text, reminding us that the brutalities of war are the same the world over.As a young girl, Hernández’s main narrator follows her beloved father into the hills and becomes a guerrilla, fighting for the rights of the poor. There, she conceives her first daughter with a fellow combatant, but is forced to give her up for safe keeping. When the war ends, she discovers the nuns have sold her baby to a childless couple in France, “to help fund the cause”. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/books/2021/jan/03/slash-and-burn-by-claudia-hernandez-review
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:00:06 GMT


title: Sylvie's Love review – Tessa Thompson captivates in jazz-hot romance
description: Sparks fly between Thompson and Nnamdi Asomugha in this glossy period melodrama set in 1950s HarlemSylvie (Tessa Thompson) has been taught by her mother to stand tall, shoulders back and chin lifted, like a proper lady. Unobserved, she’s considerably looser, freer, grooving to Bill Haley’s See You Later, Alligator in the back of her father’s record store. It’s this uninhibited joy that catches the eye of struggling jazz saxophonist Robert (NFL player turned actor Nnamdi Asomugha) in Eugene Ashe’s glossy period romance.Set in Harlem between 1957 and 1962, the lusty spark between the pair combusts despite Sylvie’s engagement to the more respectable Lacy (Alano Miller). An unexpected pregnancy and a career-making gig in Paris are further obstacles. Thompson and Asomugha have great chemistry, but the film stalls a little in the second half, when the focus pivots towards the couple’s careers. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/film/2021/jan/03/sylvies-love-review-tessa-thompson-nnamdi-asomugha-harlem-50s
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:00:05 GMT


title: Healthcare workers in the UK: Share your experiences during the second wave of coronavirus
description: We’d like to speak to healthcare workers about how they’re coping with the second wave of coronavirus, and how it compares to the firstWith the UK recording its highest daily death toll since April on Wednesday, and a new variant of coronavirus spreading rapidly, the strain on healthcare workers is as great as ever.But after months of tackling coronavirus, many are experiencing high rates of stress and fatigue, and some healthcare workers have reported feeling less supported by their communities than during the first wave of the pandemic. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/society/2020/dec/31/healthcare-workers-in-the-uk-share-your-experiences-during-the-second-wave-of-coronavirus
data: Thu, 31 Dec 2020 11:42:36 GMT


title: 'We all have to do our bit': one nurse on how the Covid vaccine will help the NHS
description: Nurse Kerry Holden has spent 2020 on the frontline helping patients recover from Covid-19. Here, she explains why it’s vital that people get the vaccine to help prevent the NHS from becoming overwhelmed ...There have been moments over the past nine months when Kerry Holden has sat in an office on a Gloucestershire Royal hospital ward and “had a little cry in the corner”. Most recently, it happened when reflecting on the more than 600 NHS and healthcare workers who died after contracting the virus.As Holden, a lead nurse for infection prevention at Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS foundation trust, says: “Reading that list of names, even now, brings a tear to my eye. It was heartbreaking to think those people came to work and lost their lives.” Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/all-in-all-together/2020/dec/18/we-all-have-to-do-our-bit-one-nurse-on-how-the-covid-vaccine-will-help-the-nhs
data: Fri, 18 Dec 2020 15:11:41 GMT


title: 'Are they safe ... and how have they been developed so quickly?': an expert answers nine frequently asked questions about Covid-19 vaccines
description: With the first vaccine expected to be rolled out before Christmas, the chair of the NHS research ethics regulator, the Health Research Authority, Prof Sir Terence Stephenson, explains how we got to this point On Wednesday, the UK approved the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid vaccine – those most at risk will start receiving it later this month. Over the past few weeks, successful results have also been announced in trials of other Covid-19 vaccines. And while this news has been largely welcomed by the public, many want to know if they have met strict standards of safety and effectiveness and how they have been developed so quickly.Prof Sir Terence Stephenson is chair of the Health Research Authority, the government body responsible for ethics review and approving research proposals relating to health, and for promoting transparency in research. Here, he explains how researchers have managed to develop Covid-19 vaccines in record time, and how these vaccines will work. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/all-in-all-together/2020/dec/03/are-covid-19-vaccines-safe-and-how-will-they-work
data: Thu, 03 Dec 2020 14:10:28 GMT


title: My travel dream for 2021: top 12 readers’ tips
description: Our tipsters yearn to visit UK coasts, cities and countryside, plus exotic journeys on the Silk Road and a Sahara freight train • 21 places to go in 2021Covid willing, we’ll be heading to Kyrgyzstan. It’s at that perfect point where the infrastructure supports a great travel experience, but it’s not become spoiled by tourists. Bishkek is modern and vibrant, and in the stunning rural areas it’s possible to stay with nomads living the traditional life. It’s one of the most beautiful countries in the world, with delicious locally sourced food. Kyrgyz community-based tourism proved an affordable way to experience the life of horse-riding nomads living in yurts, and the money goes into the community itself. Minnie Martin Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/travel/2021/jan/03/my-travel-dream-for-2021-top-12-readers-tips
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:00:01 GMT


title: Pets on video calls and desk discos: the upsides of working from home
description: Remote working has had unexpected benefits for many people, sometimes even bringing them closer to work colleagues than ever beforeIt’s easier to relate to your boss when they’re being nuzzled by their dog. There’s something humanising about the appearance of pets during work video calls – and it can bring teams closer together in spite of the physical distance.“Nearly all of us have been in virtual meetings where kids or pets have popped up ... You connect more with the people behind the corporate roles when you know a bit more about their home life and families,” says Katharine King, global research director at GVC Group, the gaming business. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/the-new-rules-of-work/2020/dec/04/pets-on-video-calls-and-desk-discos-the-upsides-of-working-from-home
data: Fri, 04 Dec 2020 11:10:31 GMT


title: Eating out is one of the bright sparks to look forward to this year
description: New ventures by chefs in the suburbs promise a return to vitality for the restaurant sectorLet’s start with the good news. For the UK’s restaurant sector, 2021 will be better than 2020. This is only because, short of your actual Godzilla rising from the depths just off Folkestone at the same time as a chunky asteroid wilfully redirects itself to slam into, say, Birmingham, laying waste to everything within a 500-mile radius, it’s hard to imagine it being worse. And even then, it will only be better for the ones who have survived. A recent survey by various industry bodies found more than 70% of hospitality businesses expected to close, if the current Covid-19 restrictions stayed in place unchanged. We have already seen a number of casualties. Michel Roux Jr’s restaurant at Parliament Square has gone, for example and, as reported here recently, chef Mark Hix has seen his whole London restaurant group close.Happy days. A look forward to the coming year should, of course, be full of lip-smacking accounts of twists on double-fried Korean chicken wings, deep dives into the compelling cooking styles of hitherto neglected regions of west Africa or India, or nerdy experiments with live fire cooking. And in the next 12 months, I hope there will be lots of that. A great meal out can also be an education. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/food/2021/jan/03/eating-out-is-one-of-the-bright-sparks-to-look-forward-to-this-year
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 06:00:07 GMT


title: Bullied back into the office? Why managers need to avoid putting pressure on staff to return
description: It can be counterproductive for businesses to add to their employees’ anxieties during the Covid pandemic. Here’s how companies can put their employees’ mental health firstJill was on her way back from a funeral in September, when the message from her line manager arrived in her inbox. It explained that the insurance company she works for had decided that staff needed to begin returning to the office to help keep the business functioning.“It was very uncomfortable as I have two children with underlying health conditions,” she says. “If they got sick, it could be deadly, but my manager was adamant that I needed to return.” Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/the-new-rules-of-work/2020/dec/03/bullied-back-into-the-office-why-managers-need-to-avoid-putting-pressure-on-staff-to-return
data: Thu, 03 Dec 2020 10:54:20 GMT


title: The big picture: the right kind of snow, London 2009
description: A rare white-out in London, captured by Peter Marlow in 2009, found sledgers running for the hills as the city ground to a haltIn the 30-odd years that I’ve lived in London, I can think of only half a dozen proper sledging days. The capital’s comical lack of preparedness for white-outs is, of course, a source of amusement for other, snowier parts of the country. But then, why prepare for something that never happens? (Until it does.)Peter Marlow’s picture of Greenwich Park from February 2009 recalls a day on which schools were closed for all the right reasons and public transport slithered to a predictable halt. The headline in the London Evening Standard read: “It’s -5 and we’re going snowhere!” But that wasn’t quite true. Everyone with a tea tray in the cupboard or an underused toboggan in the attic fetched it out and trudged to the nearest hill. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/theobserver/2021/jan/03/the-big-picture-the-right-kind-of-snow-london-2009
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:00:01 GMT


title: Vegetarian fritters, chips and dips | Nigel Slater
description: Eaten as soon as they’re ready, crisp oven chips and golden butternut fritters make for a satisfying impromptu feastWe sit on high stools by the hob, lowering batter-dipped vegetables into bubbling oil, eating them as they emerge, hot and crackling from the pan. There are tangles of grated celeriac threaded with pumpkin and parsley, a pesto sauce for dipping and dish of sea salt. We eat (or perhaps I should say “wolf”) our parcels as each becomes ready, bobbing to the surface, the grated vegetables turned into crisp, unruly fritters.Another day, we eat chips cooked in the oven, each long, fat finger of potato in a coat of semolina – I use fine polenta – and Lebanese za’atar with its notes of dried wild thyme, sesame and oregano. As they rustle on to our plates, there is a tiny bowl of garlic sauce, a dip of red pepper, olive oil and egg at their side. I make it in the style of mayonnaise, adding the oil drip by emerald green drip, into a purée of grilled red peppers, egg yolk and a fat, juicy clove of chalk-white garlic. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/food/2021/jan/03/nigel-slaters-recipes-for-vegetarian-fritters-chips-and-dips
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:30:04 GMT


title: I’ve retired and my sex drive has fallen. I’m letting my wife down | Dear Mariella
description: Don’t equate your self-worth with your business success, says Mariella Frostrup. Rediscover your lust for life and your libido will returnThe dilemma My wife and I have had a good marriage, share interests and have wonderful children. I am 18 years older than her and recently retired from a successful career.We both had a high sexual drive, but for some years have been sleeping apart because I snore. Our sex life never really recovered and – to make matters worse – my desire has gone off a cliff. We have tried, but I usually can’t get a sustainable erection – even if I take Viagra. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2021/jan/03/i-have-retired-and-my-sex-drive-has-fallen-i-am-letting-my-wife-down-mariella-frostrup
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 06:00:05 GMT


title: Tough new domestic abuse tsar prepares to shape laws to protect threatened women
description: As violence soars in locked-down homes, Nicole Jacobs explains how, as commissioner, she can make a differenceIf e verything goes according to plan, and not a lot has done since March, Nicole Jacobs will soon be the first domestic abuse commissioner for England and Wales. On Tuesday, the domestic abuse bill, which includes the creation of her role, will reach its final stages in the House of Lords. After a three-year delay, caused by two general elections and the coronavirus pandemic, can this new legislation tackle an epidemic of abuse?“This is a window of opportunity,” Jacobs says. “We have a postcode lottery for victims of domestic abuse. We’ve had refuges for over 50 yearsand greater awareness, but the public is always surprised to learn that progress in a range of areas including health, housing and policing isn’t where it should be. We have a lot to do.” Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/society/2021/jan/03/tough-new-domestic-abuse-tsar-prepares-to-shape-laws-to-protect-threatened-women
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:45:01 GMT


title: The best (and the worst) that could happen to your money this year
description: As we bid farewell to 2020, with its gains for those who could keep working, and losses for those who were furloughed or put out of work, what could 2021 hold?The past year was a strange one for household finances: while savings rates plummeted to new lows, and many people saw their incomes slide, those who could keep working often stashed away large amounts of cash.House prices rose and borrowers with big deposits were able to get very cheap mortgages, but lenders’ caution saw 95% home loans pulled and new restrictions on 90% deals. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/money/2021/jan/03/the-best-and-the-worst-that-could-happen-to-your-money-this-year
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:00:03 GMT


title: The race to replace Bill de Blasio: Who will be New York City's next mayor?
description: The new mayor will inherit a city reeling from Covid, high unemployment, surging gun violence and an exodus of residentsOn New Year’s Day 2014, the New York City mayor, Bill de Blasio, entered office promising to end the “tale of two cities” with a progressive agenda that he said would address the economic and social inequalities that “threaten to unravel the city we love”.But seven years and a global pandemic later, campaigning to decide the Democrat’s successor is heating up, and the next mayor looks set to inherit a city where experts say those disparities are not only on the rise, but are in a state of crisis. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jan/03/new-york-city-mayor-race-bill-de-blasio
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:00:03 GMT


title: Child labour, toxic leaks: the price we could pay for a greener future
description: Our mission to create cleaner living using natural resources could itself cause widespread environmental harm, scientists now warnThe battle to stave off Earth’s looming climate crisis is driving engineers to develop hosts of new green technologies. Wind and solar plants are set to replace coal and gas power stations, while electric cars oust petrol and diesel vehicles from our roads. Slowly our dependance on fossil fuels is set to diminish and so ease global heating.But scientists warn there will be an environmental price to pay for this drive to create a world powered by green technology. Prospecting for the materials to construct these devices, then mining them, could have very serious ecological consequences and major impacts on biodiversity, they say. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/03/child-labour-toxic-leaks-the-price-we-could-pay-for-a-greener-future
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:15:02 GMT


title: UK supermarket workers: share your experiences during the second wave of coronavirus
description: We’d like to speak to supermarket workers about how they’re coping with the second wave of coronavirus, and how it compares to the firstAs much of the UK comes under ever-increasing restrictions due to the second wave of coronavirus, we’d like to find out how workers in essential shops, such as supermarkets or chemists, are coping.How are you finding the second wave, how does it compare to the first? Are you finding that people are abiding by the rules or is it difficult to enforce social distancing? Do you feel there are enough safety measures in your workplace? Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/01/uk-supermarket-workers-share-your-experiences-during-the-second-wave-of-coronavirus
data: Fri, 01 Jan 2021 13:44:34 GMT


title: Do we have to age?
description: The biologist Andrew Steele thinks ageing is a disease that can be treated. But if we had a cure for getting old, what would that mean for us?When the biologist Andrew Steele tells people his thoughts on ageing – that we might one day cure it as if it were any other disease – they are often incredulous and sometimes hostile. Once, at a friend’s wedding, he left a group of guests mildly incensed for suggesting that near-future humans might live well into their 100s. A similar thing happens at dinner parties, where the responses are more polite but no less sceptical. He understands the reaction. We think of ageing as an inescapable fact of life – we’re born, we grow old, so it goes. “That’s been the narrative for thousands of years,” he says, on a video call. But what if it didn’t have to be?Steele began professional life as a physicist. As a child, he was fascinated by space, the way many scientists are. But he has spent the past three years researching a book about biogerontology, the scientific study of ageing, in which he argues the case for a future in which our lives go on and on. Steele considers ageing “the greatest humanitarian issue of our time”. When he describes growing old as “the biggest cause of suffering in the world,” he is being earnest. “Ageing is this inevitable, creeping thing that happens,” he says. He is wearing a button-down shirt and, at 35, a look of still-youthful optimism. “We’re all quite blind to its magnitude. But what do people die of? Cancer. Heart disease. Stroke. These things all occur in old people, and they primarily occur because of the ageing process.” Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/science/2021/jan/03/observer-magazine-do-we-have-to-age-biologist-andrew-steele
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:00:02 GMT


title: Animals and plants reclaim Scotland's abandoned spaces: photo essay
description: From a former airfield to a disused explosives factory, many of the country’s forgotten places are teeming with life as nature reinhabits abandoned manmade structuresSince the idea of rewilding took hold, it has generally been seen as a rural pursuit involving withdrawal from farmland so that animals and vegetation can restore their own ecology.At its most herbivorous, it includes allowing hedgerows or scrub to flourish unchecked. At its most primal, it involves deliberately releasing animals such as beavers or wolves in the belief that the re-entry of a single alpha species brings with it a cascade of ecological benefits. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/02/animals-ecology-reclaim-scotland-abandoned-landscapes-a-photo-essay
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 09:00:35 GMT


title: Teachers in England: how you are preparing for Covid testing in schools?
description: We would like to hear from teachers about the preparations being made in their schools, and from parents about the possibility of more homeschoolingAmid the debate about whether or not English schools should re-open in January after scientific advisors urged a delay to the start of the new term, it was announced that members of the armed forces will be deployed to support coronavirus testing operations for thousands of school and college students in England.We want to hear from teachers in England about how they are getting ready for testing in schools. What challenges do you face and what concerns do you have? Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/education/2020/dec/29/teachers-in-england-how-you-are-preparing-for-covid-testing-in-your-schools
data: Tue, 29 Dec 2020 13:09:35 GMT


title: Inside the hyper-local world of Facebook’s ‘buy nothing’ groups
description: In an age when people rarely know their neighbours, a ‘buy nothing’ group is one way to acquaint yourself with those living on your streetWe all have things we don’t need. For Canberra resident Zoe Bowman, it is melon ballers.“Someone asked for a melon baller to make some melon balls for a kid’s party, and I looked in the drawer and I had three,” she says. “I don’t need three melon ballers!” Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/jan/04/inside-the-hyper-local-world-of-facebooks-buy-nothing-groups
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:30:12 GMT


title: A wing and a prayer: how birds are coping with the climate crisis
description: Some of our best-loved species are changing their breeding cycles and heading north in their fight for survival in a warmer worldLockdown has sparked a renewed interest in our garden birds, with millions of us enjoying watching them from our windows. But could some species – including the common and familiar great tit – vanish from Britain’s gardens by the end of the century?Researchers from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, working with the University of Oxford, have modelled how great tits are reacting to the climate crisis. Specifically, are the birds able to respond to the earlier emergence of the caterpillars on which they feed their chicks? Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/03/a-wing-and-a-prayer-how-birds-are-coping-with-the-climate-crisis
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 06:45:00 GMT


title: Paragliders and tai chi: the weekend's best photos
description: The Guardian’s picture editors select photo highlights from around the world, including ice hockey and steam trains Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/news/gallery/2021/jan/03/paragliders-tai-chi-weekend-best-photos
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:55:15 GMT


title: UK residents: how will you be impacted by Brexit?
description: We’d like to hear from people living in the UK about how Brexit will impact themWith the Brexit deal signed into law on Thursday morning, the UK’s relationship with the EU is set to change dramatically on 1 January.We’d like to hear how you will be impacted by Britain’s departure from the EU, particularly those working in industries which will be directly impacted, such as farming, pharmaceuticals and haulage. We’d also like to hear from people working in small businesses, and those who travel often. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2020/dec/31/uk-residents-how-will-you-be-impacted-by-brexit
data: Thu, 31 Dec 2020 16:21:00 GMT


title: Plastic fantastic: vintage carrier bags - in pictures
description: Hull-based artist Aaron Thompson’s Instagram project Carry a Bag Man is a trip down memory lane. He first began collecting vintage carrier bags a few years ago, along with other packaging such as chocolate wrappers and crisp packets. It all started when he found an old Kwik Save bag in a shed. “I work in garden maintenance, so every time I had to take sheds or outhouses down, I’d come across bags.” So far, he’s photographed more than 250 for Instagram, from shops such as WH Smith, Topshop and HMV. Many of them are likely to bring back fond memories of the shopping sprees in January sales from years gone by. “The effort put into advertising back then was so much more creative and out-there,” he says. “It’s great to look at a bag and get that burst of nostalgia as soon as you see a design you’ve totally forgotten about.”  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/gallery/2021/jan/02/plastic-fantastic-vintage-carrier-bags-in-pictures
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 17:00:44 GMT


title: 20 photographs of the week
description: Pro-choice activists celebrate in Buenos Aires, police break up New Year’s Eve celebrations, the enduring impact of Covid-19 and the earthquake in Croatia: the most striking images from around the world Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/gallery/2021/jan/01/20-photographs-of-the-week
data: Fri, 01 Jan 2021 19:24:30 GMT


title: 'The Covid world became overwhelming, but help is out there': young people on mental health
description: In our final report for this year’s Guardian and Observer appeal, which has raised £1,050,000, three ‘activists’ for the mental health charity YoungMinds tell their stories• Please donate to our appeal hereWhen Lucas emerged from hospital the world had changed. It was late March and the 19-year-old was ordered to shield after six weeks of treatment for sepsis.Like most teenagers, Lucas relied on social interaction, but his autism also required routine. Monday meant dog agility classes; Tuesday was brass band night; Wednesday, the St John Ambulance get together. On Thursday and Friday, there was training for Lancashire’s inclusive rugby team, the Typhoons. Suddenly, there was nothing. His mental health collapsed. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/society/2021/jan/03/the-world-became-overwhelming
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:15:02 GMT


title: The best of the 2020 wildlife photography awards
description: Winning images from the year’s national and international competitions Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/gallery/2021/jan/02/the-best-of-the-2020-wildlife-photography-awards
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 15:11:36 GMT


title: Schools in England may stay closed for weeks, admits Williamson
description: Education secretary casts doubt on plans for schools to reopen as headteachers call for exams rethinkCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageSchools in England could remain closed beyond the middle of January, the education secretary, Gavin Williamson, has admitted, as the country’s largest education authority urged its schools to remain closed and headteachers called for next summer’s exams to be reassessed.Only three days after declaring he was “absolutely confident” all schools would reopen, Williamson said secondary schools within the 60 “contingency areas” named by the government may remain closed to most pupils after 18 January. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/education/2021/jan/03/schools-in-england-may-stay-closed-for-weeks-admits-williamson-coronavirus
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:03:13 GMT


title: Wasim Khan: 'It’s a great feeling for the nation. Pakistan has waited a long time for this'
description: England will return to Pakistan in 2021 for the first time since 2005 and the Birmingham-born chief executive of the Pakistan Cricket Board has been at the forefront of negotiationsWasim Khan predicts a huge two years for Pakistan, with the return of a touring England side for the first time in 16 years among the highlights of a leap towards a full schedule of international cricket in the country.As the chief executive of the Pakistan Cricket Board, he has been at the forefront of negotiations between the PCB and the England and Wales Cricket Board to secure England’s first visit since 2005. In 2021 and 2022, as well as England, Pakistan will also host other major tours as something akin to normality descends on this cricket-loving country after more than a decade in the wilderness following the 2009 attack on the Sri Lanka team bus in Lahore. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2021/jan/03/wasim-khan-its-a-great-feeling-for-the-nation-pakistan-has-waited-a-long-time-for-this
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:00:02 GMT


title: Boris Johnson would lose majority and seat in election tomorrow – poll
description: Results suggest public are deeply unhappy with the government’s handling of Covid and BrexitThe public are deeply unhappy with the government’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic and the Brexit negotiations, a damning new poll suggests.The poll predicts that if a general election were held tomorrow neither the Conservatives nor Labour would win an outright majority. Disturbingly for Boris Johnson, the survey says the Conservatives would lose 81 seats, wiping out the 80-seat majority they won in December 2019. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/jan/02/poll-predicts-a-uk-general-election-now-would-wipe-out-tory-majority
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 22:07:35 GMT


title: UK carmakers have three years to source local electric car batteries
description: Brexit deal means from 2024 batteries not containing 50% local materials face EU tariffsTesla almost hits 500,000-car delivery target for 2020 despite pandemic‘Peak hype’: why the driverless car revolution has stalledUK carmakers face a three-year scramble to source electric car batteries locally or from the EU to avoid tariffs on exports following the Brexit free trade deal, according to industry analysts. Related: Tesla almost hits 500,000-car delivery target for 2020 despite pandemic  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/jan/03/uk-carmakers-have-three-years-to-source-local-electric-car-batteries
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:59:44 GMT


title: Manchester City to hold investigation after Benjamin Mendy hosts NYE party
description: Defender apologises for breaking Covid-19 isolation rulesFive other City players out of trip to Chelsea with positive testsBenjamin Mendy will be the subject of an internal investigation by Manchester City with the club “disappointed” at the defender breaking of Covid-19 isolation rules. Mendy invited three people from outside his household to a New Year’s Eve party at the 26-year-old’s home. Related: Manchester City quintet miss Chelsea trip after positive Covid tests  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2021/jan/03/manchester-city-to-hold-investigation-after-benjamin-mendy-hosts-nye-party-covid-rules
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:34:39 GMT


title: Premier League fans’ half-term reports. Part two: Liverpool to Wolves
description: Fans rate the best and worst of the season so far – the stars, the flops and what needs to change in 2021• Part one: Arsenal to LeicesterAlways good to be top of the league, can’t get much higher than that. We dropped points in our last two games, but all things considered, I’m happy. The downside has been the injuries. To lose Van Dijk and Thiago away to Everton’s School of Science – or was it Dogs of War? – so early in the season was tough. But Thiago is back: I’m looking forward to seeing him on a regular basis. 9/10 Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2021/jan/03/premier-league-fans-half-term-reports-part-two-liverpool-to-wolves
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:00:03 GMT


title: England to begin mandatory quarantine after passing first Covid test in Sri Lanka
description: All cricketers and coaches return negative results on arrivalPlayers begin hotel quarantine with regular testing plannedEngland touched down in Sri Lanka on Sunday for the two-Test series between the teams later this month with a number of stringent coronavirus protocols in place for the tourists’ arrival. Related: Joe Root insists Covid cases would not end England tour of Sri Lanka  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/sport/2021/jan/03/england-arrive-in-sri-lanka-for-two-test-series-and-pass-covid-tests
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:44:11 GMT


title: Now the Swedish model has failed, it's time to ask who was pushing it | Peter Geoghegan
description: A light-touch approach to Covid-19 doesn’t work. But that didn’t stop pundits and thinktanks from advocating it for the UKCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageWhen future historians come to write the story of Britain’s chaotic pandemic response, one question in particular will surely puzzle them: why, as the UK experienced one of the world’s worst Covid outbreaks, did so many prominent public figures spend so much of 2020 talking about Sweden?Almost as soon as Boris Johnson announced a national lockdown in late March, British newspaper columnists and professional contrarians demanded that the prime minister adopt “the Swedish model” – and they were still urging the same in September. We now know with certainty what public health experts have long predicted: a light-touch coronavirus approach does not work. Sweden has recorded far higher death rates than its Nordic neighbours, while suffering a similar economic hit. Even the country’s king thinks it has “failed”. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/03/swedish-model-failed-covid-19
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:00:07 GMT


title: ‘Cancel culture’ is not the preserve of the left. Just ask our historians | David Olusoga
description: Broadcasters, universities, museums, even the National  Trust... the victims of political intolerance are manyThis will be a year of disillusionment. Even the rollout of new vaccines and the potential end of the pandemic will not prevent that. The first moment of disillusionment will come the moment we realise that we are still going be talking about Brexit and still negotiating our future relationship with the EU, particularly around the service sector. As 2020 demonstrated, getting Brexit done doesn’t mean it’s actually done.For those who believed in the more utopian of the many false promises contained within the original Brexit prospectus, the disillusionment will be deeper – although few will be willing to acknowledge it – as through the Brexit wardrobe lies our new age of difficult choices and cold realities, rather than some “enhanced sovereignty”, “Empire 2.0” Narnia. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/03/cancel-culture-is-not-the-preserve-of-the-left-just-ask-our-historians
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:45:02 GMT


title: Stowaway tells how he survived 11-hour flight to UK in new film
description: South African man, now known as Justin, speaks for first time of friend Carlito Vale, who died after 430-metre fall, in Channel 4 documentaryA South African man who survived an 11-hour flight from Johannesburg to London after hiding in a plane’s undercarriage has told of the last words he exchanged with a friend whose body fell from the same British Airways flight as it came in to land at Heathrow.“He said: ‘We made it,’ and then I passed out with the lack of oxygen,” said the man, who was then known as Themba and who has spoken publicly for the first time about the desperate journey both men undertook in 2015. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/stowaway-survived-11-hour-flight-to-uk-justin-man-fell-from-sky-channel-4
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:32:42 GMT


title: Labour MP Jo Stevens being treated in hospital for Covid
description: Shadow culture secretary has been ‘laid low for a while’, her team saidCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageThe Labour MP and shadow culture secretary Jo Stevens is being treated in hospital for coronavirus.The Cardiff Central MP has been “laid low with Covid for a while”, according to a statement from her team on New Year’s Eve.  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/02/labour-mp-jo-stevens-being-treated-in-hospital-for-covid
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 22:42:15 GMT


title: Come clean on logjams at British borders as new Brexit rules kick in, ministers told
description: Amid confusion for lorry drivers in Kent, logistics firms call for greater transparency to help lessen disruptionMinisters are facing demands for more honesty and transparency over any logjams at the UK border in the wake of Britain’s exit from the EU, amid concerns that waves of disruption will last for six months.Several lorry drivers are understood to have been turned away at Dover for not having the right paperwork following the end of the Brexit transition period last week. It has caused concern among logistics and manufacturing companies that more severe problems could occur as trade flows increase later this month. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/jan/02/logjams-british-borders-lorry-drivers-kent-brexit-rules
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 21:02:45 GMT


title: Julian Assange partner: extradition would be ‘unthinkable travesty’
description: Stella Moris speaks out on eve of ruling on whether WikiLeaks founder can be sent for trial in USJulian Assange’s partner has said a decision to extradite the WikiLeaks co-founder to the US would be “politically and legally disastrous for the UK”, on the eve of the judge’s ruling.Assange, 49, faces an 18-count indictment, alleging a plot to hack computers and a conspiracy to obtain and disclose national defence information in a case critics have decried as a dangerous attack on press freedom. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/media/2021/jan/03/julian-assange-partner-stella-moris-extradition-unthinkable-travesty-wikileaks
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:19:30 GMT


title: Cancer operations face cancellation across London as Covid patients fill hospitals
description: Exclusive: lifesaving surgery to be postponed in capital as cases top 57,000, while other parts of UK brace for effects of Christmas Day mixing Coronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageNHS bosses are set to cancel urgent surgery across London in a move that could mean cancer patients waiting months for potentially lifesaving operations, the Observer can reveal.NHS England chiefs are considering the drastic action because hospitals across the capital are becoming overwhelmed by people who are very sick with Covid-19. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/02/cancer-operations-face-cancellation-across-london-as-covid-patients-fill-hospitals
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 19:00:46 GMT


title: Covid has made 'voice notes' the perfect way to stay connected | Magdalene Abraha
description: During these alienating times, verbal messages helped us to communicate quickly while maintaining intimacy and friendshipAs the pandemic transformed the world in 2020, we leaned further into our reliance on technology, which continued to alter and tweak how we engage with each other. There were obvious winners; the Zoom app thrived; another app called Houseparty was the biggest thing for all of two weeks before it was never heard of again. Amid all these crazes, however, a quietly unassuming communication tool also flourished – the small but mighty “voice note”.First introduced by WhatsApp in 2013, and later adopted by iMessage, Facebook and Instagram, the voice note – a short recorded message – became an instant success among millennials. Initially its rise was spoken of as a passing fad, but time has shown it has in fact become a major communicative asset. Seen by many as the perfect medium between phone calls, texts and unwanted voicemails, the voice note fits seamlessly into the modern world in a way that its cousins the phone call and voicemail do not. At some point in the past five years, “let me voice note you” has become one of my most-used phrases, as I try to explain something in detail and depth. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/03/covid-voice-notes-pandemic
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:57:33 GMT


title: Naturists criticise Durham police over Facebook post about arrest
description: Naturist group say post suggested public nudity was illegal and could put them at risk of harassmentA group of naturists have accused police of putting them at risk after wrongly suggesting it was illegal to walk around naked.Three Rivers Outdoor Club, a naturist club based in the north-east of England, complained about a Facebook post by Durham constabulary, following reports of a naked man walking around Waldridge Fell, near Chester-le-Street. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2021/jan/03/naturists-criticise-durham-police-facebook-post-nudity-arrest
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:10:21 GMT


title: Youth organisations in England face wholesale closure
description: Two-thirds of small groups at risk as pandemic leaves 1.5 million young people in critical need of helpGeneration Z and Covid: ‘I’m 100% more politicised’England faces a wholesale closure of youth organisations, leaving a generation of vulnerable young people without life-changing support, according to research.Almost two-thirds of youth organisations with incomes under £250,000 say they are at risk of closure, with 31% saying they might have to shut in the next six months. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2021/jan/03/youth-organisations-in-england-face-wholesale-closure
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:00:06 GMT


title: Pope condemns travelling abroad to escape coronavirus lockdowns
description: Pontiff uses video address to urge public to ‘take care of each other’ Coronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coveragePope Francis has condemned people who had gone abroad on holiday to escape coronavirus lockdowns, saying they needed to show greater awareness of the suffering of others.Speaking after his weekly noon blessing, Francis said he had read newspaper reports of people catching flights to flee government curbs and seek fun elsewhere. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/pope-francis-condemns-travelling-abroad-to-escape-coronavirus-lockdowns
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:14:55 GMT


title: 'Step up' and face Grenfell inquiry, minister tells cladding firm bosses
description: Stephen Greenhalgh said executives should not ‘hide behind’ rarely used French lawThe UK government has demanded that executives who supplied combustible cladding to Grenfell Tower “step up to the plate” after their refusal to give evidence to the public inquiry into the disaster provoked anger among the bereaved and survivors.On Sunday, Stephen Greenhalgh, the building safety minister, escalated a legal and diplomatic dispute over the position taken by three current and former executives at the French division of the US company Arconic. He told them to stop hiding behind an arcane French law. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2021/jan/03/step-up-and-face-grenfell-inquiry-minister-tells-cladding-firm-bosses-arconic
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:19:08 GMT


title: Keir Starmer calls for immediate lockdown in England as Covid cases soar
description: Labour leader urges prime minister to impose new nationwide restrictions within next 24 hoursCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageThe Labour leader, Keir Starmer, has urged Boris Johnson to avoid delay by imposing new nationwide restrictions in England within the next 24 hours to tackle the “out of control” virus.After the prime minister earlier on Sunday raised the prospect of tougher Covid-19 restrictions amid concerns over pressure on the NHS, Starmer intervened to argue action must be taken immediately and that it was no good hinting at curbs to come in future. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/jan/03/keir-starmer-calls-for-immediate-lockdown-in-england-as-covid-cases-soar
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:48:38 GMT


title: Revisited: Leonardo da Vinci and the mystery of the world's most expensive painting. Podcast
description: Salvator Mundi was sold for a record $450m at auction in 2017 to an anonymous bidder. But the painting’s provenance as the work of Leonardo has been called into questionThis week we are revisiting some of our favourite episodes from throughout 2020. This episode was first released on 22 May 2020A long-lost painting authenticated as the work of Leonardo da Vinci was sold for a world record price of $450m in a dramatic auction in New York in 2017. The price stunned the art world and created a storm of attention for a painting that had only been rediscovered in 2005. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/news/audio/2020/dec/30/revisited-leonardo-da-vinci-and-the-mystery-of-the-worlds-most-expensive-painting-podcast
data: Wed, 30 Dec 2020 03:00:00 GMT


title: Chelsea v Manchester City: Premier League – live!
description: Updates from the 4.30pm GMT kick-off at Stamford BridgeLive scoreboard: the latest from Sunday’s gamesJonathan Wilson: Guardiola fine-tunes balance of press and defenceAnd you can email Rob here with your thoughts 4.57pm GMT 26 min Phil Foden muscles Zouma off the ball and is fouled. He’s made one, scored one and is having a blinder.  4.57pm GMT 25 min This is extremely encouraging for City, not least because they are without so many players. In the last 10 minutes they have looked like the City of 2017-19. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/football/live/2021/jan/03/chelsea-v-manchester-city-premier-league-live
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:57:27 GMT


title: 'Traitors and patriots': Republican push to keep Trump in power seems doomed
description: Senators decline to defend electoral college ploy on TVDemocrats and GOP leaders to block gambit aimed at party baseRobert Reich: Seven ways 2020 left America exposedAll 12 Republican senators who have pledged not to ratify the electoral college results on Wednesday, and thereby refuse to confirm Joe Biden’s resounding victory over Donald Trump in the presidential election, declined to defend their move on television, a CNN host said on Sunday. Related: Ted Cruz and other Republican senators oppose certifying election results  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jan/03/trump-republicans-electoral-college-results-senators-cruz-hawley-romney
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:12:35 GMT


title: US Covid death toll passes 350,000 amid vaccine distribution delays
description: California funeral homes turn grieving families awayLouisiana remembers congressman-elect Luke LetlowHundreds of thousands more deaths feared in vaccine chaosThe Covid-19 death toll in the US passed 350,000 early on Sunday, as experts anticipated another surge in cases and deaths stemming from holiday gatherings over Christmas and the new year. Related: Larry King, TV chatshow veteran, in hospital with coronavirus – reports  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/us-covid-coronavirus-death-toll-350000-vaccine-rollout
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:36:07 GMT


title: Edinburgh zoo may have to send giant pandas back to China
description: Financial pressure from Covid leaves zoo struggling to afford £1m-a-year leaseEdinburgh zoo’s giant pandas may have to return to China next year at the end of its 10-year contract with the Chinese government, due to financial pressures.The Royal Zoological Society of Scotland, which runs Edinburgh zoo and the Highland Wildlife Park, faced enormous financial pressure when it was forced to close for three months during the summer. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2021/jan/03/edinburgh-zoo-may-have-to-send-giant-pandas-back-to-china
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:57:05 GMT


title: Irish state broadcaster apologises over TV comedy depicting God as rapist
description: RTÉ New Year’s Eve show included mock news report about God implicated in sexual harassment caseIreland’s state broadcaster, RTÉ, has apologised after an outcry over a television comedy sketch that depicted God as a rapist.A countdown show on New Year’s Eve included a mock news report about God being the latest prominent figure implicated in a sexual harassment scandal. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/irish-state-broadcaster-apologises-over-tv-comedy-depicting-god-as-rapist
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:42:01 GMT


title: Maddison and Tielemans on target as Leicester go third after win at Newcastle
description: Newcastle may not be the most exotic of destinations but Leicester City find it extraordinarily restorative. Not for the first time Brendan Rodgers’ players departed Tyneside with the refreshed, optimistic sheen more usually associated with teams newly returned from midwinter breaks in the sun. Related: Newcastle v Leicester: Premier League – live!  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/football/2021/jan/03/newcastle-united-leicester-city-premier-league-match-report
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:25:43 GMT


title: Generation Z and the Covid pandemic: 'I’m 100% more politicised'
description: The virus has not only changed young people’s day-to-day lives but also their hopes and dreams for the futureCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageTwo months ago, the Guardian interviewed a group of young people from across the UK about their experiences of the coronavirus pandemic and their feelings about how their lives had been affected. Here those young people reflect on an extraordinary year and share their hopes and fears for the future. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/generation-z-and-the-covid-pandemic-im-100-more-politicised
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:00:06 GMT


title: Reparations row MP adds plantation to his register of members’ interests
description: Tory Richard Drax, who represents South Dorset, has corrected a number of ‘errors and omissions’ in his parliamentary listThe Conservative MP Richard Drax has now added the plantation he has inherited in Barbados to the parliamentary register of members’ interests after the Observer revealed omissions and errors in his declaration.Three weeks ago, the Observer revealed that Drax, the MP for South Dorset since 2010, had taken control of the 250-hectacre Drax Hall Plantation, where his ancestors had a slave workforce from 1640-1836. We also revealed that he is the wealthiest landowner in the House of Commons worth as much as £150m, although he and his family draw a tight veil over their finances. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/reparations-row-mp-adds-plantation-to-his-register-of-members-interests-richard-drax
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 06:00:05 GMT


title: India's approval of covid vaccines triggers mass immunisation drive
description: Green light for Oxford vaccine alongside domestic Covaxin hailed as ‘decisive turning point’ by PMCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageIndia has granted emergency approval to both the Oxford/AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine and the domestically developed Covaxin, signalling the start of one of the largest Covid-19 immunisation drives in the world.At a press conference on Sunday, the drugs controller general of India said the decision to approve both the Oxford vaccine and Covaxin, which is produced by the Indian company Bharat Biotech and was part-funded by the government, had come after “careful examination” of the data. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/indias-approval-of-twin-vaccines-triggers-mass-immunisation-drive
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:47:14 GMT


title: 'Open all schools!' 'Close all schools!' What England really needs is creative thinking | John Harris
description: The pandemic has sparked a shouting match. Instead we should be working out how to keep everyone in education safeThe crisis enveloping schools, and the noisy resentment it has sparked, reflect just about every aspect of England’s Covid-19 story. The education secretary, Gavin Williamson, has taken the government’s grim mixture of arrogance and incompetence to new depths. When Boris Johnson was interviewed by Andrew Marr today it was striking to see so much of the conversation devoted to schools, but there was a wearying familiarity to the vagueness of the prime minister’s position on urgent issues. The fact that there is no clear line even on the proposed opening of all schools in England a fortnight from now hardly answers people’s need for clarity and leadership.Yet again councils, who are only too aware of local realities, have objected to edicts from Whitehall. In London, boroughs that rejected the demand that their primary schools open on 4 January forced yet another government U-turn. Meanwhile, as concerns grow about the new variant spreading via schools, talk of “a switch to online learning” is now common – yet this could exacerbate many hard realities that have emerged during the pandemic. For plenty of families, “connectivity” amounts to a pay-as-you-go smartphone running on a mobile network; in millions of cases, remote learning is a completely vain hope. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/03/england-children-schooling-pandemic-schools
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:32:08 GMT


title: Meet the new breed of cabinet minister – too rubbish to fail | Sonia Sodha
description: Gavin Williamson has spent the pandemic being guided by populist politics rather than children’s educationYou couldn’t make it up. Less than three weeks ago, the education secretary, Gavin Williamson, was threatening to take legal action against schools in Islington and Greenwich, in London, if they closed a few days early for Christmas in light of alarming increases in Covid infection rates. On Wednesday night, primary schools in these boroughs were told that they would need to reopen as usual on Monday, unlike those in most other London boroughs, despite their high infection rates and a hospital in Greenwich declaring a major incident just a couple of days before that. Then, on Friday evening, Williamson led the government in its first U-turn of the year to announce that these schools would be closing from Monday after all, giving parents and teachers precisely zero opportunity to make arrangements.It is just the latest example of Williamson’s breathtaking incompetence. At every turn in this pandemic, he has made missteps that will affect children for the rest of their lives. A half-decent education secretary would have worked with teaching unions to set in train a staged reopening of schools last May when infection rates were falling, as senior paediatricians were calling for at the time. They would have put on a programme of structured outdoor activities over the summer holidays for children who had missed months of school. They would have properly invested in equipping schools and homes for distance learning in the event of the second wave everyone was expecting. They would have introduced a school-wide test, track and trace scheme run by public health experts, rather than expecting headteachers to organise and oversee volunteer-led mass testing with virtually no notice. They would have stumped up for a tuition fee rebate for undergraduates and asked universities to move to distance learning rather than encouraging students to spread the virus across the country, which has resulted in many young people forking out for a university experience that has involved long spells of self-isolating in boxrooms. None of this is rocket science. It just takes a little imagination, a modicum of competence and a tiny bit of passion for wellbeing. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/03/meet-the-new-breed-of-cabinet-minister-too-rubbish-to-fail
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:30:02 GMT


title: This deal is enough to make an eel squeal | Stewart Lee
description: With no wriggle room left at the inn for our slippery friends, Christmas Eve won’t be the same againAn eel farmer in Gloucestershire who exports eels to continental Europe, and who voted for Brexit, may lose his business because of eel paperwork incurred by the red-tape-removing Brexit he voted for. One can only pity him, and his eels. The time for filthy Remainer schadenfreude has passed. But regular readers will remember that I was among many in the liberal commentariat ridiculed for flagging up the post-Brexit fate of eels. Indeed, to highlight the issue in the spring of 2016, I and Bob Geldof swam the full length of the Severn estuary dressed as eels, while Nigel Farage bombarded us with scoops of mash from an amphibious vehicle. Our gesture was, predictably, dismissed as part of “Project Fear” by Dan Hananananan in the Daily Telegraph, and yet our projected fears have come true. Before the eel farmer voted, he should have sought eel advice from a source better equipped than him to understand the eel issues. An eel perhaps. Brexit! It’s like eels voting for some kind of religious festival where everyone eats eels.Why did the bleary-faced Brexit gangmaster Michael Gove have such contempt for eels and their future outside the single market? Is it revenge, because his telescopic eyes, beak-like rostrum and aquatic pallor make him look like an out-of-focus underwater photograph of an eel? Old school friends at Robert Gordon’s college say that, for the otherwise icy Gove, being mocked in the showers for his resemblance to the tasty fish was his achilles eel. It is even rumoured on the dark web that Gove himself was once mistaken for an eel by his co-Brexiter Mark Francois while frolicking in a culvert, leading to a shameful incident involving a scoop of mash and some liquor that it took all of his wife Sarah Vine’s press connections to conceal. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/03/this-deal-is-enough-to-make-an-eel-squeal
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:00:04 GMT


title: Tony Blair: I would have voted for Boris Johnson's post-Brexit trade deal
description: Former Labour prime minister reveals he would have backed Keir Starmer in Commons voteTony Blair, who was one of the most prominent campaigners for a second referendum on EU membership, has said he would have backed Boris Johnson’s post-Brexit trade deal with Brussels in the Commons.The former prime minister revealed he would have supported the Labour leader, Keir Starmer, who whipped his MPs to vote in favour of the prime minister’s agreement with the EU last week before the end of the transition period. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/politics/2021/jan/03/tony-blair-i-would-have-voted-for-boris-johnson-post-brexit-trade-deal
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:25:33 GMT


title: Destruction of brutalist architecture in north of England prompts outcry
description: Simon Phipps says mismanagement and lack of appreciation is leading to unnecessary demolitionSome of the finest examples of brutalist architecture in the north of England are at risk of being torn down, according to a photographer who believes a crucial part of the country’s architectural history could be lost in the process.Simon Phipps, the photographer behind the book Brutal North, a survey of brutalist architecture in the north of England, said that a mix of mismanagement and a general undervaluing of brutalism was leading to unnecessary demolition. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/artanddesign/2021/jan/03/destruction-brutalist-architecture-north-england-outcry
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:19:09 GMT


title: Liverpool's acting mayor calls for national coronavirus lockdown
description: Wendy Simon says ‘alarming levels’ of new more transmissible variant means action is needed urgentlyCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageThe acting mayor of Liverpool has called for a national lockdown amid rising numbers of Covid-19 cases in the UK.Wendy Simon and the city council’s cabinet say the speed of the rise in coronavirus cases and a new more transmissible variant mean action is needed to save lives and stop hospitals being overwhelmed. She said the number of infections had reached “alarming levels”. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/uk-news/2021/jan/03/liverpools-acting-mayor-calls-for-national-coronavirus-lockdown
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 06:00:06 GMT


title: Breakthrough in UK’s slow-brewing move towards an eco-friendly cuppa
description: Co-op finally set to launch own brand plastic-free teabags after outcry over microplasticsThe Co-op is to launch a range of own-brand plastic-free teabags nearly three years after it first pledged an eco-friendly version of the nation’s favourite brew.Mass-produced teabags became an unlikely target in the fight against the global plastic binge, after it emerged that the industry-wide sealant that helps hold their shape is made of polypropylene, and not biodegradable. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/food/2021/jan/03/breakthrough-in-uks-slow-brewing-move-towards-an-eco-friendly-cuppa
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:00:04 GMT


title: Папа римский принял отставку главы белорусских католиков
description:  Папа римский Франциск принял отставку католического архиепископа-митрополита Минско-Могилевского Тадеуша Кондрусевича, сообщила служба печати Святого престола.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/otstavka-1591897181.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:14:59 +0300


title: На Украине рассказали о срыве контракта по вакцине от COVID-19
description:  Украина могла бы иметь уже два контракта по вакцине от коронавирусной инфекции COVID-19 и дешевле по меньшей мере на 1 доллар за дозу, заявил генеральный директор госпредприятия "Медицинские закупки Украины" Арсен Жумадилов.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/kontrakt-1591904962.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:41:42 +0300


title: В Калифорнии закончились места в моргах
description:  В Калифорнии на фоне вспышки коронавируса закончились места в моргах, сообщает CTV News.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/kaliforniya-1591902336.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:15:52 +0300


title: Историк ответил на территориальные претензии Эстонии к России
description:  Заместитель директора Института истории и политики МПГУ Владимир Шаповалов прокомментировал заявление спикера парламента Эстонии Хенна Пыллуааса об актуальности Тартуского мирного договора.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/estoniya-1591883052.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:24:57 +0300


title: В храме в Гатчине ответили на обвинения в продаже макарон вместо свечей
description:  Сотрудница свечной лавки при Гатчинском кафедральном соборе Святого Апостола Павла в Ленинградской области в разговоре с РИА Новости назвала бредом информацию о том, что в учреждении вместо восковых свечей продают макароны.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/khram-1591897984.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:24:34 +0300


title: В Кремле прокомментировали сообщения о планах Путина на Рождество
description:  В Кремле пообещали сообщить своевременно, где президент РФ Владимир Путин будет встречать Рождество.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/rozhdestvo-1591902601.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:19:04 +0300


title: В США озвучили свою версию происхождения коронавируса
description: Заместитель советника президента США Дональда Трампа по национальной безопасности Мэтью Поттингер назвал утечку из лаборатории в Китае самой "достоверной" теорией возникновения эпидемии. Об этом пишет Daily Mail.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591902060.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:13:34 +0300


title: В США за сутки зафиксировали почти 300 тысяч случаев заболевания COVID-19
description:  Число случаев заражения коронавирусом в США за последние сутки увеличилось на рекордные почти 300 тысяч, сообщает университет Джонса Хопкинса, который суммирует данные федеральных и местных властей, а также СМИ и других открытых источников.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591900609.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:50:25 +0300


title: Эксперт предсказал курс биткоина в сто тысяч долларов
description:  Самая популярная криптовалюта в мире отмечает 3 января день рождения - за 12 лет биткоин вырос от малоизвестного актива до обсуждаемого центробанками инвестиционного инструмента стоимостью почти 30 тысяч долларов. В 2021 году его цена продолжит расти и может достичь уровня в диапазоне 38-100 тысяч долларов, считают опрошенные РИА Новости эксперты.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/bitkoin-1591898120.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:25:08 +0300


title: Туристы сократили продолжительность новогодних поездок за границу
description: Продолжительность новогодних поездок за рубеж за год существенно сократилась, сообщает Biletix.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/otdykh-1591893181.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:08:00 +0300


title: В Афганистане при взрыве автомобиля погибли пять человек
description:  Пять человек погибли, еще двое пострадали в результате взрыва автомобиля в провинции Каписа на востоке Афганистана, сообщает телеканал Tolo News со ссылкой на главу провинциального совета Каписы Мохаммада Хусейна Санджани.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/afganistan-1591897823.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:23:56 +0300


title: Число жертв COVID-19 в США превысило 350 тысяч
description:  Число жертв коронавируса в США превысило 350 тысяч, сообщает университет Джонса Хопкинса, который суммирует данные федеральных и местных властей, а также СМИ и других открытых источников.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591869951.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:42:08 +0300


title: Просившие о помощи моряки с судна "Николай Солодчук" вернутся в Россию
description:  Моряки с российского краболова "Николай Солодчук" в порту Намибии, которые просили помощи в погашении долгов по зарплате и репатриации, начали получать деньги и вылетать на родину, сообщил РИА Новости председатель Дальневосточной региональной организации Российского профсоюза моряков (РПСМ) Николай Суханов.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/moryaki-1591901374.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:04:34 +0300


title: В Новосибирске школьница разбилась насмерть во время катания с горки
description:  В Новосибирске девятилетняя школьница погибла во время катания с горки, сообщил портал NGS.ru.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/devochka-1591896848.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:09:11 +0300


title: Депутат назвала опасными высказывания в Эстонии о границе с Россией
description:  Депутат Госдумы РФ Елена Панина назвала высказывания спикера парламента Эстонии Хенна Пыллуааса о границе с Россией неуместными, отметив, что в условиях отсутствия договора о границе между Россией и Эстонией такие заявления выглядят опасным фактором, ведущим к обострению международной обстановки.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/estoniya-1591891645.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:24:19 +0300


title: Израиль завершил поставку США системы ПВО "Железный купол"
description:  Израиль завершил поставку армии США системы ПВО "Железный купол", сообщило израильское министерство обороны.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/pvo-1591891395.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:23:32 +0300


title: Роспотребнадзор прокомментировал данные о смертельной "болезни X" в Конго
description:  Роспотребнадзор изучает все источники и публикации по ситуации в Конго после сообщений о возможном возникновении новой смертельной "болезни X", заявили РИА Новости в пресс-службе ведомства.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/bolezn-1591895872.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:02:06 +0300


title: Опасаться новой пандемии из-за болезни в Конго рано, считает эпидемиолог
description:  Опасаться новой пандемии после сообщений о возможности появления новой смертельной "болезни X" в Конго не стоит, похожие симптомы могут проявляться и при неинфекционных заболеваниях, заявил РИА Новости заместитель директора Центрального НИИ Эпидемиологии Роспотребнадзора Александр Горелов.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/bolezn-1591896717.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:07:41 +0300


title: Башкирские депутаты внесли законопроект о запрете передвижных зоопарков
description:  Депутаты башкирского парламента внесли в Госдуму законопроект о запрете передвижных зоопарков, цирков и дельфинариев на территории России, сообщили в пресс-службе госсобрания-курултая региона.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/zooparki-1591875064.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:55:27 +0300


title: МВД ответило на просьбу Жириновского об электронном паспорте
description:  Лидеру ЛДПР Владимиру Жириновскому пообещали, что он одним из первых получит электронную версию паспорта гражданина России, сообщает телеграм-канал фракции ЛДПР.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/zhirinovskiy-1591873887.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:42:21 +0300


title: Рейс "Аэрофлота" из Сургута в Москву задержали из-за неисправности
description:  Рейс авиакомпании "Аэрофлот" из Сургута в Москву задержан как минимум на сутки из-за технической неисправности самолета Airbus А320, сообщает Уральская транспортная прокуратура.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/neispravnost-1591869402.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:37:37 +0300


title: Жигунов рассказал о своем состоянии после заражения коронавирусом
description:  Актер Сергей Жигунов сообщил, что выписался из больницы после перенесённого коронавируса и продолжит лечение дома.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/zhigunov-1591874304.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:48:13 +0300


title: В Таиланде выявили первые случаи "британского" штамма COVID-19
description:  Первые четыре случая заражения новым штаммом коронавируса, выявленным в Великобритании, зафиксирован в Таиланде, сообщает телеканал Thai PBS.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/shtamm-1591872676.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:29:03 +0300


title: Мясников оценил рекомендации РПЦ для пожилых людей
description:  Врач и телеведущий Александр Мясников прокомментировал позицию РПЦ, которая призвала пожилых людей отказаться от посещения храмов на Рождество.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/myasnikov-1591873580.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:36:35 +0300


title: Эксперт порекомендовал праздничные книги для детей
description:  "Щелкунчик и мышиный король", "Чудесный доктор", "Двенадцать месяцев", а также "Хильда и тролль" станут хорошим выбором как для семейного, так и для индивидуального чтения детьми во время новогодних праздников, а каждая прочитанная вместе история делает семью крепче, считает педагог, специалист Института изучения детства, семьи и воспитания Российской академии образования Виталий Молев.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/knigi-1591870856.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:04:08 +0300


title: В Москве откроют запись на вакцинацию от COVID-19 для новых групп риска
description:  Запись на вакцинацию работников банковского и финансового секторов, органов власти и бюджетных учреждений откроется в Москве с 4 января, сообщил мэр столицы Сергей Собянин.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/vaktsinatsiya-1591871335.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:07:11 +0300


title: Вступили в силу новые правила работы кинотеатров
description:  Посетителей всех кинотеатров на территории России с 1 января обязаны информировать перед началом сеансов о мерах безопасности при возникновении пожара.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/kinoteatry-1591871098.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:05:24 +0300


title: Спасатели рассказали, как не допустить возгорания автомобиля зимой
description:  Спасатели рекомендуют в зимний период регулярно проводить технический осмотр машины, иметь огнетушитель в салоне и не курить, чтобы не допустить возгорания автомобиля, рассказали РИА Новости в пресс-службе ГУ МЧС по Еврейской автономной области.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/avtomobil-1591869253.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:34:04 +0300


title: Курс биткоина обновил исторический максимум
description:  Стоимость самой популярной криптовалюты — биткоина — превысила 34 тысячи долларов, обновив исторический максимум. Об этом свидетельствуют данные торгов.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/bitkoin-1591866619.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:36:12 +0300


title: Эксперты рассказали о новом ГОСТе по эвакуации при авариях и катастрофах
description:  Национальный стандарт (ГОСТ), который содержит требования по планированию эвакуационных мероприятий в России при угрозе и возникновении различных чрезвычайных ситуаций, начнет действовать с 1 июня 2021 года.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/gost-1591866728.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:37:43 +0300


title: Искусственный интеллект не представляет угрозы, уверен японский футуролог
description:  Искусственный интеллект не представляет угрозы для человечества, вопреки некоторым опасениям, он лишь расширит возможности человека, заявил в интервью РИА Новости ведущий японский футуролог, консультант правительства Японии Мориносукэ Кавагути.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/tekhnologii-1591869736.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:39:58 +0300


title: Телеведущего Ларри Кинга госпитализировали с COVID-19
description:  Американский телеведущий Ларри Кинг госпитализирован после того, как его тест на коронавирус дал положительный результат, сообщает телеканал ABC со ссылкой на источник.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/king-1591865543.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:26:55 +0300


title: Названы самые простые способы избавиться от похмелья
description:  Эксперты издания Times Now перечислили продукты, с помощью которых можно устранить похмельный синдром и восстановить организм.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/pokhmele-1591868799.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:29:28 +0300


title: В граничащем с Россией Хэйхэ остановили работу транспорта из-за COVID-19
description:  Власти китайского города Хэйхэ, граничащего по реке Амур с российским Благовещенском, с воскресенья приостановили работу общественного транспорта и такси из-за выявления семи случаев COVID-19, говорится в заявлении на сайте местного правительства.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/transport-1591864384.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:32:21 +0300


title: Жириновский рассказал о "последнем шансе" для Трампа
description:  Лидер ЛДПР Владимир Жириновский считает, что последним шансом для отмены результатов выборов в США для Дональда Трампа может быть введение режима ЧС на территории страны.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/tramp-1591865676.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:27:21 +0300


title: Инфекционист назвал противопоказания для вакцинации от коронавируса
description: . Инфекционист Евгений Тимаков в беседе с РБК предупредил россиян о противопоказаниях для прививки от коронавирусной инфекции.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/vaktsina-1591864794.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:48:51 +0300


title: Правительство Японии созовет совет по вопросу введения режима ЧС
description:  Правительство Японии на следующей неделе созывает экспертный совет для рассмотрения возможности введения режима чрезвычайной ситуации в Токио и трех соседних префектурах, сообщило агентство Киодо.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/yaponiya-1591907853.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 17:25:39 +0300


title: В Instagram назвали самые популярные посты 2020 года
description:  Аналитики из приложения Instagram составили список из десяти самых популярных постов за 2020-й год, которые набрали больше всего лайков, сообщает Billboard. 
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/instagram--1591897086.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 18:21:58 +0300


title: Роспотребнадзор высказался о снятии ограничений для привитых от COVID-19
description:  Вопрос снятия ограничений для привитых от коронавируса необходимо проработать с учетом информации о том, как долго сохраняется иммунный ответ после вакцинации, говорится в сообщении Роспотребнадзора, размещенном в телеграм-канале "стопкоронавирус.рф".
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591908248.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 17:30:30 +0300


title: Вирусолог оценил данные о новой смертельной болезни в Конго
description:  Главный научный сотрудник Центра эпидемиологии и микробиологии имени Гамалеи Виктор Зуев в разговоре с телеканалом RT прокомментировал данные о появлении новой смертельной "болезни Х" в Конго.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/bolezn-1591911951.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 18:25:46 +0300


title: Трамп заявил, что статистика по коронавирусу в США слишком преувеличена
description:  Президент США Дональд Трамп заявил, что число случаев заражения и смертей от коронавируса в США слишком преувеличено из-за "нелепого" метода подсчета, используемого Центрами по контролю и профилактике заболеваний (CDC).
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591906881.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 17:13:23 +0300


title: В Индии во время похорон погибли восемнадцать человек
description:  Восемнадцать человек, пришедшие на похороны в городе Мураднагар в индийском штате Уттар-Прадеш, погибли при обрушении крыши крематория, сообщил телеканал NDTV.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/pogibshie-1591909845.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 17:58:20 +0300


title: Эксперты рассказали, где путешественники проводят новогодние каникулы
description: Эксперты рассказали, куда отправились туристы на новогодние каникулы и когда они вернутся домой, сообщает Aviasales.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/kanikuly--1591905692.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 17:20:00 +0300


title: Аэропорт Адена возобновил работу, прерванную из-за обстрела министров
description:  Международный аэропорт в йеменском городе Аден возобновил работу спустя несколько дней после обстрела, сообщает йеменский портал Al-Masdar Online.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/aden-1591885567.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:02:13 +0300


title: Глава Ленобласти ответил на территориальные претензии Эстонии к России
description: . Губернатор Ленинградской области Александр Дрозденко предложил эстонским политикам не "включать" историческую память избирательно.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/estoniya-1591884677.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:47:02 +0300


title: Ученый оценил риски появления новых смертельных болезней
description:  Доктор биологических наук, профессор МГУ Алексей Аграновский прокомментировал данные о том, что в Конго найдены признаки распространения "болезни Х".
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/bolezni-1591885683.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:02:06 +0300


title: В Госдуме прокомментировали слова спикера парламента Эстонии о границе
description:  Высказывания спикера парламента Эстонии Хенна Пыллуааса о границе с Россией, возможно, больше рассчитаны на внутреннюю аудиторию, но такие слова отдаляют перспективы ратификации российско-эстонского пограничного договора 2014 года и создают дополнительную напряженность в двустороннем и межпарламентском сотрудничестве, заявил журналистам глава комитета Госдумы по международным делам Леонид Слуцкий.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/estoniya-1591881958.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:10:37 +0300


title: В МВД Белоруссии рассказали о ситуации с акциями протеста
description:  Обстановка в Белоруссии в воскресенье спокойная, правоохранители контролируют ситуацию с несанкционированными массовыми мероприятиями, заявила РИА Новости пресс-секретарь МВД республики Ольга Чемоданова.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/belorussiya-1591885096.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:50:20 +0300


title: В Китае восхитились "сибирским грибом бессмертия"
description:  Пользователь китайского портала Sina восхитился полезными качествами березового гриба чаги, назвав его "сибирским грибом бессмертия".
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/grib-1591879739.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:44:40 +0300


title: Россиянам пообещали мягкий вариант зимы
description:  Научный руководитель Гидрометцентра Роман Вильфанд рассказал, какая погода ждет жителей европейской части России в ближайшие несколько дней.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/zima-1591884553.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:46:37 +0300


title: Эксперты составили список самых ожидаемых фильмов 2021 года
description:  Авторы из Variety — ведущего американского издания, посвященного событиям из мира кино и шоу-бизнеса, составили список самых ожидаемых фильмов 2021 года.  
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/filmy-1591881295.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:46:00 +0300


title: Врачи рассказали, как лучше провести новогодние каникулы
description:  Специалисты рассказали РИА Новости, как распланировать новогодние каникулы так, чтобы не "одуреть" от скуки за десять дней, почему нельзя заполнять все дни активностями и как надо правильно гулять, если на работе приходилось сидеть целыми днями.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/kanikuly-1591882310.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:20:25 +0300


title: На территорию резиденции японской императорской семьи проник неизвестный
description:  Неизвестный проник на территорию резиденции императорской семьи Акасака и оставался там около двух часов, сообщил телеканал Fuji.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/yaponiya-1591877627.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:20:40 +0300


title: Врач объяснил снижение заболеваемости COVID-19 в России
description:  Снижение заболеваемости коронавирусом в России связано с меньшим тестированием на COVID-19 во время праздников, пик еще не пройден, заявил РИА Новости инфекционист Евгений Тимаков.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591877348.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:16:32 +0300


title: В США издали письма Бунину времен его жизни во Франции
description:  В главной библиотеке Кембриджского университета обнаружены ранее неизвестные автографы Ивана Бунина, которые привели к находке писем к нему от друзей семьи Николая и Натальи Кульман. В книгу "Автографы не горят" (Autographs Don’t Burn), опубликованную в издательстве Academic Studies Press в США, вошли около 50 переведенных на английских язык писем, адресованных писателю. Об уникальной находке и работе над книгой в интервью РИА Новости рассказала автор, преподаватель кафедры славистики, факультета современных и средневековых языков и лингвистики Кембриджского университета Вера Царева-Браунер.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/bunin-1591878518.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:30:16 +0300


title: Житель Новосибирска покончил с собой в прямом эфире
description:  Житель Новосибирска покончил с собой во время прямой трансляции во "ВКонтакте", сообщает "Новосибирск онлайн".
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/novosibirsk-1591880108.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:49:51 +0300


title: Турчак рассказал о практике "народного" бюджетирования
description:  Практика распределения бюджетных средств с учетом мнения жителей применяется уже не первый год и хорошо себя зарекомендовала в ряде регионов РФ, рассказал секретарь генерального совета партии "Единой России", первый вице-спикер Совета Федерации Андрей Турчак.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/byudzhet-1591876851.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:11:31 +0300


title: Эксперт предсказал рост заболеваемости COVID-19 в Москве после каникул
description:  После зимних каникул можно ждать роста заболеваемости коронавирусом в Москве, сообщил РИА Новости врач-инфекционист, профессор Николай Малышев.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591879586.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:44:04 +0300


title: Женщины-машинисты вышли на Филевскую линию московского метро
description:  Женщины-машинисты вышли на Филевскую линию метро Москвы, обучение длилось почти год, из 25 девушек права получили 12, сообщил журналистам заммэра Москвы по вопросам транспорта Максим Ликсутов.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/mashinisty-1591878944.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:33:34 +0300


title: В России за сутки выписали 19 847 человек после лечения от COVID-19
description:  В РФ за сутки выписаны 19 847 человек после лечения от COVID-19, за все время - 2 618 882, сообщили журналистам в оперативном штабе по борьбе с распространением коронавирусной инфекции.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591876197.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:05:56 +0300


title: Инфекционист не исключил рост заболеваемости COVID-19 после праздников
description:  Рост заболеваемости коронавирусом в России вероятен после праздников, в Москве ситуация с COVID-19 стабилизируется к концу января, в целом по России - к концу февраля, заявил РИА Новости инфекционист Евгений Тимаков.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591877161.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:12:46 +0300


title: В Москве 6114 пациентов вылечились от COVID-19 за сутки
description:  Московские врачи вылечили от коронавируса более 645 тысяч человек, сообщает в воскресенье столичный оперативный штаб по контролю и мониторингу ситуации с коронавирусом.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/moskva-1591877500.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:20:21 +0300


title: Оперштаб назвал регионы с наименьшими темпами прироста случаев COVID-19
description:  За сутки нет прироста COVID-19 в Чукотском автономном округе, сообщили журналистам в оперативном штабе по борьбе с распространением коронавирусной инфекции.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591876623.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:09:04 +0300


title: В России за сутки умерли 504 пациента с COVID-19
description:  За сутки в РФ подтверждены 504 смерти с COVID-19, за все время - 58 506, сообщили журналистам в оперативном штабе по борьбе с распространением коронавирусной инфекции.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591876334.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:06:28 +0300


title: В России выявили 24 150 новых случаев заражения коронавирусом
description:  В России зарегистрировали 24 150 новых случаев заражения коронавирусом, это минимальный прирост за сутки с 25 ноября (23 675), сообщили в оперативном штабе по борьбе с распространением COVID-19.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591875748.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:03:09 +0300


title: В Дагестане произошло землетрясение магнитудой 4,2
description:  В Дагестане ночью произошло еще одно землетрясение магнитудой 4,2, пострадавших и разрушений нет, сообщает пресс-служба регионального МЧС.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/zemletryasenie-1591875317.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:59:39 +0300


title: В Москве выявили 3851 новый случай заражения коронавирусом
description:  Наибольшее число новых случаев COVID-19 выявлено в Москве - 3851, Санкт-Петербурге - 3738, Подмосковье - 1539, сообщили журналистам в оперативном штабе по борьбе с распространением коронавирусной инфекции.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591875624.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:03:23 +0300


title: "Британский" штамм коронавируса обнаружили на Кипре
description:  Новый штамм коронавируса, который сначала был обнаружен в Великобритании, а затем в различных европейских странах, выявлен на Кипре у лиц, прибывших из Соединенного Королевства и сдавших положительный тест на вирус, сообщило министерство здравоохранения Кипра.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591915289.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 19:26:55 +0300


title: В Петербурге снизилось число госпитализаций пациентов с коронавирусом
description:  Количество госпитализаций в Петербурге за неделю снизилось, доля свободных коек для пациентов с COVID-19 и пневмониями составляет 20%, сообщает межведомственный городской координационный совет по противодействию распространению коронавируса.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591917616.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 20:00:56 +0300


title: Раскрыта опасность новой мутации коронавируса
description: Старший преподаватель эпидемиологии Лондонского университета королевы Марии Дипти Гурдасани предупредила об опасности новой мутации COVID-19 для детей. Соответствующий пост она опубликовала в твиттере.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/mutatsiya-1591916844.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 19:37:22 +0300


title: Эксперты посоветовали искать для детей командные развлечения на Новый год
description:  Главным условием отсутствия стресса у ребенка во время новогодних каникул в условиях пандемии является спокойствие самих родителей, а развлекаться нужно командой, иначе ребенок может испытать чувство вины за скуку мамы и папы, считают опрошенные РИА Новости эксперты.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/deti-1591886407.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:15:22 +0300


title: Друг режиссера Грачевского рассказал о его самочувствии
description:  Худрук "Ералаша" Борис Грачевский чувствует себя лучше, идёт на поправку, однако о выписке говорить пока рано, рассказал РИА Новости его друг Владимир Долинский.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/grachevskiy-1591916232.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 19:33:24 +0300


title: В Британии за сутки выявили около 55 тысяч заболевших COVID-19
description:  Количество выявленных случаев коронавируса в Британии за сутки составило 54 990, скончались 454 человека, сообщает минздрав Соединенного Королевства.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591914805.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 19:18:45 +0300


title: Норвежская DNV GL объяснила отказ сертифицировать "Северный поток — 2"
description:  Норвежская компания Det Norske Veritas — Germanischer Lloyd (DNV GL) не может сертифицировать "Северный поток — 2" в связи с санкциями США против трубопровода, говорится в заявлении компании, поступившем в распоряжение РИА Новости.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/potok-1591895096.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:52:49 +0300


title: В Туве восемь человек погибли в ДТП
description:  Восемь человек погибли в ДТП с двумя легковыми машинами в Туве, еще два человека пострадали, сообщили РИА Новости в пресс-службе республиканского управления МВД.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/tuva-1591891169.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:20:54 +0300


title: Умер журналист Сергей Самойлов, работавший в латиноамериканских бюро АПН
description:  Российский журналист Сергей Самойлов, в 80-е годы работавший в латиноамериканских бюро Агентства печати "Новости" (АПН), скончался в Москве в возрасте 70 лет, сообщила РИА Новости его вдова Светлана Самойлова.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/samoylov-1591913409.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 18:57:10 +0300


title: В Москве появились карты "Тройка" с Barbie в честь женщин-машинистов
description:  Транспортные карты "Тройка" с Barbie появились в метро Москвы к выходу на линию первых женщин-машинистов, сообщил столичный департамент транспорта в телеграм-канале.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/metropoliten-1591895246.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:53:02 +0300


title: На Сокольнической линии московского метро человек упал на пути
description:  Движение поездов Сокольнической линии московского метрополитена восстановлено после падения пассажира на пути, сообщает дептранс в Telegram-канале.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/padenie-1591888062.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:38:28 +0300


title: Псковский губернатор доложил Путину об устранении последствий непогоды
description:  Губернатор Псковской области Михаил Ведерников доложил президенту России Владимиру Путину о ходе ликвидации последствий ледяного дождя, в результате которого без электроэнергии осталось более 20 тысяч человек, сообщает сайт Кремля.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/pskov-1591912452.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 18:30:58 +0300


title: В США начнут продавать УАЗ "Патриот"
description: Российские внедорожники УАЗ "Патриот" начнут продавать в США с 2021 года, сообщает Fox News.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/patriot-1591894938.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:49:55 +0300


title: Помпео рассказал о жестких действиях США против России
description: Госсекретарь США Майк Помпео предложил в Twitter "поговорить о России" и жесткой политике Вашингтона в отношении Москвы.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/pompeo-1591915683.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 19:29:49 +0300


title: В частном доме в Ростовской области нашли тела четырех человек
description:  Тела четырех человек найдены в частном доме в городе Сальске Ростовской области в воскресенье, сообщил РИА Новости представитель СУСК России по региону.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/proisshestviya-1591890304.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:15:05 +0300


title: Израильский министр прокомментировал заявление Зарифа об атаках на США
description:  Слова министра иностранных дел Ирана Мохаммада Джавада Зарифа о планах израильской провокации против США являются "полной болтовней", заявил министр энергетики Израиля Юваль Штайниц в интервью телерадиокомпании "КАН".
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/zarif-1591893306.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:37:36 +0300


title: Три человека пострадали при прорыве трубы с кипятком в Волжском
description:  Количество пострадавших при прорыве тепломагистрали в Волжском Волгоградской области увеличилось до трех, сообщили РИА Новости в мэрии города.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/proryv-1591889332.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:59:27 +0300


title: Число пострадавших при прорыве трубы в Волжском выросло до четырех
description:  Число пострадавших при прорыве тепломагистрали в городе Волжский Волгоградской области увеличилось до четырех, двое из них в реанимации, сообщили РИА Новости в комитете здравоохранения области.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/proisshestvie-1591893989.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 14:43:32 +0300


title: В Москве до 15 января не будет организованных занятий спортом
description:  Москвичи могут заниматься спортом в городских парках, но организованных занятий, кружков и секций из-за коронавируса не будет, сообщила РИА Новости заместитель директора по связям с общественностью Мосгорпарка Дарья Косинова.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/koronavirus-1591887422.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:34:46 +0300


title: Прощание с актером Кореневым пройдет 5 января
description:  Прощание с народным артистом России Владимиром Кореневым состоится 5 января в его родном Электротеатре Станиславский, похоронят актера на Введенском кладбище Москвы, заявили РИА Новости в театре.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/proschanie-1591886686.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:23:59 +0300


title: Глава МВД Сербии заявил, что президента страны незаконно прослушивали
description:  Правоохранительные органы и спецслужбы Сербии выяснят обстоятельства незаконного прослушивания президента Александра Вучича, заявил министр внутренних дел Александр Вулин.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/serbiya-1591888494.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:43:14 +0300


title: Онищенко прокомментировал прогноз первооткрывателя Эболы о "болезни X"
description:  Академик РАН, депутат Госдумы Геннадий Онищенко прокомментировал данные об обнаружении в Конго признаков распространения нового смертельного заболевания.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/onischenko-1591888187.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:40:52 +0300


title: В Совфеде оценили возможность пересмотра границы России и Эстонии
description:  Изменение послевоенных границ между Россией и Эстонией невозможно, подобные заявления не способствуют улучшению отношений стран, заявил РИА Новости в воскресенье член международного комитета Совфеда Сергей Цеков.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/granitsa-1591882596.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:22:58 +0300


title: Пенс приветствовал решение группы сенаторов оспорить итоги выборов
description:  Вице-президент Майк Пенс приветствует решение группы сенаторов-республиканцев США выразить формальное возражение против итогов голосования выборщиков в день их утверждения конгрессом 6 января, сообщает газета Hill со ссылкой на главу его аппарата Марка Шорта.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/pens-1591866852.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:37:55 +0300


title: Adut Akech: ‘I was just this shy kid’
description: Adut Akech’s rise from Kenyan refugee camp to the international catwalk has been remarkable. She talks about her ‘fashion dad’ Edward Enninful and why she wants to see proper diversity in the fashion industryAll the best supermodels have fairytale origin stories. They are bullied at school: too tall, too flat-chested, too strange-looking. Boys prefer their more comely peers. They grow up believing themselves to be unlovable, even social outcasts. And then an outsider swoops in – perhaps at an airport (Kate Moss), in Primark (Jourdan Dunn), or McDonald’s (Gisele Bündchen). The scout plucks them from obscurity and drops them into a life of international travel, money and acclaim. Their self-doubt is sloughed away like dead skin. Bullies stand chastened. The supermodel triumphs.Moss and co don’t have anything on Adut Akech’s origin story. Their childhoods are the Pixar remakes of her Grimms’ fairytale. Akech was born as her mother fled civil war in South Sudan and raised in a refugee camp in Kenya. At seven, she moved with her family to Australia. When she arrived, she didn’t speak any English, “I was this tall, super-shy, awkward kid,” she says. “I had a weird name, and a gap tooth.” Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/fashion/2021/jan/03/supermodel-adut-akech-interview-i-was-just-this-shy-kid-naomi-campbell-vogue
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:00:04 GMT


title: Sitting comfortably? Top TV treats to raise your spirits in 2021
description: It’s in with the old and the new, as broadcasters and streaming platforms serve up a slew of fresh dramas, favourite series, comedy hits and debutsWith no end to lockdown in sight, one thing is certain – we’re all going to be inside watching a lot of television at the beginning of the year.At least, for now, there’s a wide variety of programming on offer, with terrestrial and digital channels providing everything from the experimental and daring to comfort TV. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2021/jan/03/sitting-comfortably-top-tv-treats-to-raise-your-spirits-in-2021
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:45:02 GMT


title: Russell T Davies: ‘I looked away for years. Finally, I have put Aids at the centre of a drama’
description: The acclaimed screenwriter recalls his life during the 1980s Aids crisis, and reveals why it is only now, with his new TV series It’s a Sin, that he feels able to tell a story that has haunted him for decadesThere are things I can’t say here. Men I dare not name. The first man I ever had sex with. A man I loved for three months in 1988. That hilarious friend I spent a mad week with in Glasgow. All of them dead, now. And they all died of Aids.But I can’t say their names because their families said they died of cancer or pneumonia. And they maintain that story to this day. Even now, I’ve had to change a few details in those opening sentences, just in case. The stigma and fear of Aids was so great that a family could go through the funeral, the wake and then decades of mourning without saying what really happened. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2021/jan/03/russell-t-davies-i-looked-away-for-years-finally-i-have-put-aids-at-the-centre-of-a-drama
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:00:03 GMT


title: How 'voodoo' became a metaphor for evil
description: 'Voodoo' has come to represent something evil when it appears in popular culture. 'Black magic', witchcraft – it's always portrayed as something to be feared. But in reality, Vodou, as it's correctly written, is an official religion practised by millions of people. Why has it been vilified for so long? Josh Toussaint-Strauss looks back over the history of Vodou and its portrayal to find an answer Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/culture/video/2020/nov/26/how-voodoo-became-a-metaphor-for-evil
data: Thu, 26 Nov 2020 14:41:08 GMT


title: The Oxford Covid jab is delivered this week. But when will vaccines bring results?
description: Fall or rise in coronavirus cases will not initially be a good measure of efficacy, say scientists devising ways to audit progressWhy is Britain delaying second doses of vaccine?Coronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coveragePeople in Britain are set to get their first shots of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine on Monday, with millions of doses being given over the next few months. The mass vaccination of the UK’s population should bring an end to the country’s Covid-19 misery, but how long will it take for this immunisation programme to make a difference to our lives – and what will be the first signs that salvation is on the way?These key issues will be anxiously pursued as the battle against Covid proceeds and daily cases involving the new virus variant continue to spread. However, scientists have warned that simply waiting for a reduction in new cases is not the way to tell whether the vaccine is starting to have an impact. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/society/2021/jan/03/oxford-covid-jab-delivered-this-week-when-vaccines-results
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:15:00 GMT


title: Jane Goodall: 'Change is happening. There are many ways to start moving in the right way'
description: The primatologist and ecological activist on why population isn’t the cause of climate change, and why she’s encouraging optimismJane Goodall is a primatologist who is regarded as one of the world’s leading authorities on chimpanzees. She has spent 60 years studying the chimps that live in the Gombe Stream national park and she is a prominent advocate, via several foundations, of protecting the great apes and their habitats. She has been presented with awards by the UN and various governments for her conservation and environmental work. She appears in the Netflix documentary The Beginning of Life 2.You warned last June that humanity will be finished if we don’t make drastic changes in response to the coronavirus pandemic and the climate crisis. Have you seen any indication of that drastic change?The window is closing. Business as usual – using up natural resources faster and faster – can’t carry on. In some cases, we are already using resources faster than they can be replenished. And we can see the consequences. Look at climate change. It is not something that might happen in the future; we are already seeing terrible hurricanes and floods and fires. It is building up into an inferno. When you think globally like that, it is very, very depressing. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/03/jane-goodall-change-is-happening-there-are-many-ways-to-start-moving-in-the-right-way
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:00:03 GMT


title: The best of 2020's amazing world of sport – video highlights
description: Stray cats, stunning shots and smashed glass, 2020 did not fail to deliver incredible viral moments. Despite being a year where the sporting world stood still, after the global outbreak of coronavirus, it still provided us with the good, the bad and the downright bizarre. From arguably the most precise shot in bowls history to 450ft disc golf holes in one Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/sport/video/2020/dec/21/the-best-of-2020s-amazing-world-of-sport-video-highlights
data: Mon, 21 Dec 2020 12:23:37 GMT


title: Floods, storms and searing heat: 2020 in extreme weather
description: While Covid has dominated the news, the world has also felt the effects of human-driven global heatingThis year has broken a series of unwelcome weather records. Last month was the warmest November in history. This followed the hottest January, May and September. All-time temperature peaks were registered from the Antarctic to the Arctic. Since the start of the year, Australia, Siberia and California have suffered record fires. The Atlantic has generated record storms. Ice in the Laptev Sea has started forming later than ever.The coronavirus pandemic may have dominated the news and temporarily reduced emissions. But 2020 has also demonstrated the increasingly evident impact of human-driven global heating. The six hottest years in human history have all occurred since 2014. That sequence will certainly continue for a seventh year. The World Meteorological Organization (WMO) will soon know whether 2020 will take first, second or third place in the all-time ranking. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2020/dec/30/floods-storms-and-searing-heat-2020-in-extreme-weather
data: Wed, 30 Dec 2020 07:00:05 GMT


title: How the Guardian covered 2020 – the year that changed the world
description: This year was the most challenging and extraordinary year for news. Our journalists worked tirelessly throughout 2020, from the very start of the year with the Australian bushfires, through the struggle for Hong Kong, the Harvey Weinstein verdict to the death of George Floyd, and the dramatic and divisive US presidential election.&amp;nbsp;But of course, the Covid-19 pandemic was the dominant global story of the year. The Guardian's coverage sought to foreground the science and the latest data, hold the government and the scientific establishment to account and expose incompetence, and bring empathy and humanity to the stories of the victims.&amp;nbsp;Here are some of the highlights of our journalism over that time.• Show your support&amp;nbsp;for the Guardian’s powerful, open, independent journalism in 2020 and the years ahead Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/video/2020/dec/21/how-the-guardian-covered-2020-the-year-that-changed-the-world
data: Mon, 21 Dec 2020 10:04:41 GMT


title: Rugby union and dementia: is the sport facing a crisis? – video explainer
description: Steve Thompson, who won the Rugby World Cup with England in 2003, former Wales back-rower Alix Popham and nine other ex-internationals – all under the age of 43 – have launched what could be a landmark legal action&amp;nbsp;against World Rugby, the RFU in England and the Welsh Rugby Union after being diagnosed with early onset dementia.&amp;nbsp;In revealing and at times harrowing interviews with the Guardian, both Thompson and Popham speak of the challenges they have faced, struggling to remember playing on the world stage and what changes they want to see brought in to the game, as senior reporter Andy Bull examines the links between rugby and dementia.At the last count, in 2014, there were 1,339 people in the UK from the player's age demographic who had been diagnosed with the condition – or one in every 9,500 - presenting a sobering contrast with these latest cases from the sport.A spokesperson&amp;nbsp;for&amp;nbsp;the game’s governing body said:&amp;nbsp;'World Rugby takes player safety very seriously and implements injury-prevention, management and education strategies based on the latest available knowledge, research and evidence.'Rugby union and dementia – a special report Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/sport/video/2020/dec/08/rugby-union-dementia-thompson-popham-video-explainer
data: Tue, 08 Dec 2020 14:02:19 GMT


title: Two canyoners sucked into a whirlpool in the NSW Blue Mountains found dead
description: Police divers locate the bodies of two women who went missing on Saturday afternoon during expedition in Wollangambe CanyonThe bodies of two women who went missing while canyoning in the Blue Mountains yesterday have been recovered by police.Emergency services were called to Wollangambe Canyon, Mount Wilson, about 2.30pm on Saturday after the women disappeared beneath the water. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/australia-news/2021/jan/03/search-resumes-for-two-canyoners-sucked-into-a-whirlpool-in-the-nsw-blue-mountains
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 02:52:40 GMT


title: The healthy nurse who died at 40 on the Covid frontline: 'She was the best mom I ever had' – video
description: Yolanda Coar was 40 when she died of Covid-19 in August this year in Augusta, Georgia. She was also a nurse manager, and one of nearly 3,000 frontline workers who have died in the US fighting this virus, according to an exclusive investigation by the Guardian and Kaiser Health News.The Guardian has profiled hundreds of healthcare workers in a year-long project. Read their stories here Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/video/2020/dec/31/lost-on-the-frontline-covid-nurse-coronavirus
data: Thu, 31 Dec 2020 14:25:30 GMT


title: В Новосибирской области проверят данные об издевательствах над ребенком
description:  Следственный комитет и прокуратура организовали проверки после появления в интернете данных об издевательствах над подростком в детском доме-интернате для умственно отсталых детей в Новосибирской области.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/rebenok-1591882783.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 12:24:26 +0300


title: Новые правила техосмотра вступят в силу с 1 марта
description:  Процедура технического осмотра автомашин в России будет фиксироваться на камеру с 1 марта 2021 года, соответствующие изменения содержатся в новой редакции федерального закона "О техническом осмотре транспортных средств и о внесении изменений в отдельные законодательные акты РФ".
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/tekhosmotr-1591871212.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:06:35 +0300


title: Tiers, fears and what we lost in lockdown | Anywhere but Westminster – video
description: John Harris and John Domokos revisit parts of the Midlands and north-west England that they've been chronicling for years, and talk to people about the aspects&amp;nbsp;of the Covid era that can't be captured in charts and graphs – from mental health to the silencing of musicians, to life without work. One thing is clear: this crisis will last well beyond the rollout of a vaccine Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/video/2020/dec/04/tiers-fears-and-what-we-lost-in-lockdown-anywhere-but-westminster-video
data: Fri, 04 Dec 2020 10:55:53 GMT


title: The Case for Keto review – why a full-fat diet should be on the menu
description: Gary Taubes argues persuasively that ‘those who fatten easily’ should abandon carbs altogetherThe investigative journalist Gary Taubes is known for his painstakingly researched and withering demolitions of the “eat less, move more” diet orthodoxy, but his latest book is personal. The Case for Keto is aimed at “those of us who fatten easily”. Taubes locates himself in this beleaguered group, “despite an addiction to exercise for the better part of a decade” and a diet of “low-fat, mostly plant ‘healthy’ eating”. “I avoided avocados and peanut butter because they were high in fat and I thought of red meat, particularly steak and bacon, as an agent of premature death. I ate only the whites of egg.” Yet still he remained overweight.Taubes started to shed those pounds when he realised that one-size-fits-all diet advice fails, among other reasons, because people are metabolically different. Some of us can eat fattening carbohydrates and sugar and get away with it; others can’t. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/books/2021/jan/03/the-case-for-keto-review-why-a-full-fat-diet-should-be-on-the-menu
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:00:00 GMT


title: 'This is where I need to be': the UK women defying fishing stereotypes
description: Not-for-profit Women in Fisheries aims to get more women involved in male-dominated industry Superstition among fishing crews has traditionally said that women on ships are bad luck – and it is among many of the reasons women in the fishing industry are in short supply.Now though, they are being urged to join Britain’s fishing fleet by the first UK company to emerge that is actively encouraging women to fish. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/03/this-is-where-i-need-to-be-the-uk-women-defying-fishing-stereotypes
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:33:12 GMT


title: Revisited: the clitoris coverup – why do we know so little?
description: Medical textbooks are full of anatomical pictures of the penis, but the clitoris barely rates a mention and many medical professionals are uncomfortable even talking about it. Reporter Calla Wahlquist and associate news editor Gabrielle Jackson explain the history and science of the clitoris, and speak to the scientists and artists dedicated to demystifying itThis week we are revisiting some of our favourite episodes from 2020. This episode was first broadcast on The Full Story by Guardian Australia on 8 November 2020You can read Calla Wahlquist’s piece on why the clitoris is ignored by medical science here. You can also read an edited extract of Gabrielle Jackson’s book Pain and Prejudice here. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/news/audio/2021/jan/01/today-in-focus-revisited-the-clitoris-coverup-why-do-we-know-so-little-podcast
data: Fri, 01 Jan 2021 03:00:04 GMT


title: California crash: seven children killed in head-on collision
description: Two adult drivers also died when vehicle swerved into path of Ford carrying the children, authorities saidSeven children and two adult drivers were killed in a head-on collision between an SUV and a pickup truck in central California on New Year’s Day, authorities have said.The children, who were between six and 15 years old, were part of two related families travelling in a 2007 Ford F-150 pickup when it was hit by a Dodge Journey on State Route 33 between Avenal and Coalinga around 8pm on Friday, the Fresno county coroner’s office and the California highway patrol said. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jan/03/california-crash-seven-children-killed-in-head-on-collision
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 03:56:52 GMT


title: ‘It makes me want to cry’: voices of hospital staff on the Covid frontline
description: Three healthcare workers describe the realities of struggling against a rising tide of coronavirus casesCoronavirus – latest updatesSee all our coronavirus coverageJunior doctorPushpo Hossain is in the eye of the capital’s Covid storm. The ward where the junior doctor cares for severely ill coronavirus patients is having to limit oxygen and consider who gets the hard-to-come-by non-invasive ventilators. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/it-makes-me-want-to-cry-voices-of-hospital-staff-on-the-covid-frontline
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 08:00:02 GMT


title: Sci-fi movies leave me empty. Isn't the real world dramatic enough? | Prove me wrong
description: Science fiction is just a bunch of loud noises, special effects and unbelievable plotlines, argues Alison Rourke. Shelley Hepworth tries to prove her wrongAlison: Shelley, I think sci-fi movies are a waste of time. If I’m going to spend a couple of hours watching something, I want the characters, and how they relate to each other, to be the hero of the story. When I watch sci-fi, it seems like the machines, the special effects and the fantasy are the main point of the film. I know for some people that’s about escapism, but how can it provide an escape if what’s on screen is fundamentally unattainable in real life?Sorry, but it just leaves me empty. Prove me wrong, Shelley. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2021/jan/04/sci-fi-movies-leave-me-empty-isnt-the-real-world-dramatic-enough
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:30:13 GMT


title: 'Peak hype': why the driverless car revolution has stalled
description: As Uber parks its plans for robotaxis, experts admit the autonomous vehicle challenge is bigger than anticipatedTesla almost hits 500,000-car delivery target for 2020 despite pandemicUK carmakers have three years to source local electric car batteriesBy 2021, according to various Silicon Valley luminaries, bandwagoning politicians and leading cab firms in recent years, self-driving cars would have long been crossing the US, started filing along Britain’s motorways and be all set to provide robotaxis in London.1 January has not, however, brought a driverless revolution. Indeed in the last weeks of 2020 Uber, one of the biggest players and supposed beneficiaries, decided to park its plans for self-driving taxis, selling off its autonomous division to Aurora in a deal worth about $4bn (£3bn) – roughly half what it was valued at in 2019. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2021/jan/03/peak-hype-driverless-car-revolution-uber-robotaxis-autonomous-vehicle
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:24:47 GMT


title: Staged's Anna Lundberg and Georgia Tennant: 'Scenes with all four of us usually involved alcohol'
description: The hit BBC sitcom Staged started when actors and friends David Tennant and Michael Sheen began messing about on Zoom. On the eve of series two, we talk to their scene-stealing partnersNot many primetime TV hits are filmed by the show’s stars inside their own homes. However, 2020 wasn’t your average year. During the pandemic, productions were shut down and workarounds had to be found – otherwise the terrestrial schedules would have begun to look worryingly empty. Staged was the surprise comedy hit of the summer.This playfully meta short-form sitcom, airing in snack-sized 15-minute episodes, found A-list actors Michael Sheen and David Tennant playing an exaggerated version of themselves, bickering and bantering as they tried to perfect a performance of Luigi Pirandello’s Six Characters in Search of an Author over Zoom.  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/tv-and-radio/2021/jan/03/staged-bbc-anna-lundberg-georgia-tennant-david-michael-sheen-scenes-with-all-four-of-us-usually-involved-alcohol
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 11:00:05 GMT


title: Squatters issue death threats to archaeologist who discovered oldest city in the Americas
description: Squatters reportedly belonging to one family claim site of 5,000 year-old ruins was given to them in the 1970sIllegal squatters have invaded the ruins of the oldest city in the Americas, and made death threats against Ruth Shady, the celebrated Peruvian archaeologist who discovered the 5,000 year-old civilization.The threats came via telephone calls and messages to various workers at the archeological site at the height of Peru’s Covid-19 pandemic. They followed reports to the police and prosecutors about the invasions of the ancient ruins of Caral. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/squatters-ancient-ruins-peru-death-threats-archeologist-caral
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:00:04 GMT


title: Decent, competent, cautious, but Starmer still has to prove he can inspire victory | Gaby Hinsliff
description: The Labour leader is doing well in the polls, but it’s time he laid out a political credo that makes him electableAfter grief comes a time to heal. After loss comes acceptance. And after even the messiest divorce a willingness to move on eventually comes.But it’s not something that can be rushed, as Keir Starmer is discovering. However long we have known it was coming, Britain’s final break-up with the EU still feels like a bereavement for some. Yet there was no time for mourning in the Labour party. A ticking parliamentary clock forced the opposition to choose between voting for the only form of Brexit deal available or taking the electoral consequences. By asking his party to back the deal, Starmer was, in effect, inviting a grieving widow to move on with the body barely cold. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2021/jan/03/decent-competent-cautious-but-starmer-still-has-to-prove-he-can-inspire-victory
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:00:03 GMT


title: Lethal airstrikes in Yemen ‘left off’ confidential UK record
description: Ministers under pressure to say why attacks involving civilian casualties have been excluded from log of alleged humanitarian breachesThe government is under pressure to explain why a series of air strikes in Yemen, many involving civilian casualties, have not been recorded in its confidential log of alleged breaches of international humanitarian law (IHL).The existence of the database, which has been kept by the Ministry of Defence since 2015, emerged only when the government became embroiled in a legal challenge over its decision to grant UK arms manufacturers export licences to sell weapons to Saudi Arabia for use in Yemen. The challenge came amid claims the weapons were being used in breach of IHL. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/lethal-airstrikes-in-yemen-left-off-confidential-uk-record
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 07:30:01 GMT


title: Dutch high hopes for legal cannabis farms hit by nimby protests
description: Drug supply experiment falters as Netherlands plan for greenhouses stirs anxiety among local residentsA Dutch trial of state-regulated cannabis cultivation farms to supply coffee shops risks being derailed by an outbreak of nimbyism after locals protested about the location of one of the new facilities.The plans to take over greenhouses on the outskirts of Etten-Leur, a town in north Brabant, near the Belgian border, and replace blackberries with cannabis plants, triggered large local protests and a request by the local mayor for central government to block the scheme. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/dutch-high-hopes-for-legal-cannabis-farms-hit-by-nimby-protests
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 09:00:02 GMT


title: Revisited: a cure for insomnia?
description: Like a growing number of people, Simon Parkin suffered from insomnia for years. After dozens of failed techniques, he finally found one that workedThis week we are revisiting some of our favourite episodes from 2020. This episode was first broadcast on 16 MarchFor years, journalist Simon Parkin had suffered sleepless nights in his running battle with insomnia. Tiny noises or distractions would rouse him and then sleep would be impossible. It was taking a toll on his health and his waking life, so he resolved to do something about it. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/news/audio/2020/dec/31/today-in-focus-revisited-a-cure-for-insomnia-podcast
data: Thu, 31 Dec 2020 03:00:28 GMT


title: Tesla almost hits 500,000-car delivery target for 2020 despite pandemic
description: The manufacturer delivered 499,550 cars in 2020, thanks to an end-of-year sales bumpUK carmakers have three years to source local electric car batteries‘Peak hype’: why the driverless car revolution has stalledTesla reported record deliveries of its electric cars in the last three months of 2020, coming within a whisker of achieving the half-million target for the year set by its chief executive, Elon Musk.The California-based manufacturer’s annual sales rose by 36% after a final quarter that exceeded analysts’ expectations, delivering a total of 499,550 cars in 2020. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2021/jan/03/tesla-almost-hits-500000-car-delivery-target-for-2020-despite-pandemic
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 13:55:45 GMT


title: Иностранцы захотели переночевать на остановке в российской деревне
description:  Иностранных пользователей платформы Reddit восхитила автобусная остановка в российской деревне. Некоторым место показалось настолько уютным, что они захотели переночевать там.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/ostanovka-1591902742.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:19:45 +0300


title: Один из пострадавших в ДТП в Туве находится в крайне тяжелом состоянии
description:  Один из трех пострадавших в ДТП в Туве, где погибли восемь человек, находится в крайне тяжелом состоянии, состояние еще двух госпитализированных - тяжелое, сообщили РИА Новости в минздраве республики.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/dtp-1591904124.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:32:10 +0300


title: Ярмольник пожаловался на отсутствие зарплаты
description:  Актер Леонид Ярмольник пожаловался на финансовые трудности, с которыми ему пришлось столкнуться из-за пандемии коронавируса.
link: https://ria.ru/20210103/yarmolnik-1591903309.html
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 16:22:52 +0300


title: Sunday with Arlo Parks: ‘I’m a nocturnal creature’
description: The musician likes meandering, Mexican food and being creative until the early hoursAre you an early riser? Not exactly. I’m up around 11am to my alarm. Without it I’d sleep into the afternoon. Our Hammersmith family home feels empty as I make a coffee. My brother’s doing homework, Mum’s out, and Dad’s down at his allotment.A day at home? I’ll watch a Studio Ghibli film, or read my book with a record playing – think Erykah Badu or Minnie Riperton, anything down-tempo and warm. When I smell the fresh mint and sage Dad has picked at the allotment, it’s time for Mexican food. We don’t really do Sunday-roast vibes. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2021/jan/03/sunday-with-arlo-parks-im-a-nocturnal-creature
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 06:45:00 GMT


title: 'It's awakened me': UK climate assembly participants hail a life-changing event
description: From buying an electric car to starting a secondhand clothes business, attendees talk of the unexpected delights of the first UK citizens’ assemblyAt the start of 2020, Sue Peachey could never have predicted how her life would change over the next 12 months. She was one of 108 people to take part in the UK’s first climate assembly earlier in the year, spending four weekends learning about a range of environmental issues before producing a final report of recommendations.“The first weekend changed me really. I thought, ‘Oh my God, [climate change] is really going to happen,’ she said. “It made me want to learn and to live my life greener.” Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2020/dec/31/its-awakened-me-uk-climate-assembly-participants-hail-a-life-changing-event
data: Thu, 31 Dec 2020 09:35:04 GMT


title: In the ‘land of storytelling’, Netflix and Amazon Prime reshape India’s creative landscape
description: The streaming giants are making bold TV shows but the threat of censorship looms largeThis year’s Emmy awards, one of the biggest nights in global television, was particularly historic for India. It was the second year in a row that several Indian television shows were nominated, and the first time an Indian series won. Delhi Crime, an eight-part Netflix drama exploring a brutal rape case in 2012, took home the award for the best international series.Indeed, all the Indian nominations were for shows created by Netflix or Amazon Prime. Over the past two years, streaming has radically shifted India’s domestic creative landscape – and created a new global audience for Indian series and films. According to Amazon Prime, 20% of viewers of their original Indian content are now from outside India. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/02/in-the-land-of-storytelling-netflix-and-amazon-prime-reshape-indias-creative-landscape
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 17:41:33 GMT


title: Greta Thunberg at 18: 'I'm not telling anyone what to do'
description: Environmental activist says she has stopped buying new clothes but will not criticise those who fly or have childrenGreta Thunberg says she has stopped buying new clothes but does not sit in judgment on others whose lifestyle choices are less environmentally friendly than her own, in an interview to mark her 18th birthday.Thunberg, whose solo school strike in 2018 snowballed into a global youth movement, stopped flying several years ago, travelling instead by boat. She is vegan and said she had stopped consuming “things” . Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2021/jan/03/greta-thunberg-at-18-im-not-telling-anyone-what-to-do
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 15:08:35 GMT


title: US braces for post-holiday Covid surge as death toll passes 350,000
description: New Year’s Day saw 160,606 new cases and 2,051 deathsDoctors warn they are at ‘breaking point’Hundreds of thousands more deaths possible in vaccine chaosThe US is braced for a post-holiday coronavirus surge as its death toll passed 350,000, with thousands more predicted to die in the coming month and doctors warning they are at “breaking point” and fighting “world war three”. Related: 'Why aren't they home?': Lake Tahoe struggles to keep winter vacationers at bay  Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2021/jan/02/us-coronavirus-covid-cases-death-toll-holidays
data: Sat, 02 Jan 2021 18:15:11 GMT


title: South African game reserves forced to cull animals as Covid halts tourism
description: Tourist lodges run out of cash to feed and care for the animals on their land and thousands of villagers lose their jobsImpala run through the thorn bush, ibis fly above the lake and lightning forks over the horizon as a storm rolls in from the Drakensberg mountains.The visitors driven across the 10,000 or more hectares of the Nambiti game reserve in South Africa’s KwaZulu-Natal province see what they think is an unchanged, and unchanging natural landscape. Continue reading...
link: https://www.theguardian.com/world/2021/jan/03/south-african-game-reserves-forced-to-cull-animals-as-covid-halts-tourism
data: Sun, 03 Jan 2021 10:45:05 GMT

